Rescue! In Australia it's 000. In New Zealand it's 111. In the US and Canada it's 911 and in the UK and many other countries around the world it's 999. That's the number to call in an emergency. And of course, we all know that • when there's a crime you ask for the police. • when you need medical help you ask for an ambulance. • when there's a fire you ask for the fire brigade. But These aren't the only emergency Services o help you. You are climbing in the mountains. You fall and break a leg. You're lucky because you've got a phone with you. You dial 999. Who do you ask for? the mountain Rescue. You are sailing at sea. The weather gets bad. The waves get really big and your boat is in trouble. You've got a radio on the boat. You call 999.  who do you ask for? the coastguard. You are exploring a deep cave. Some rocks fall and you can't get out. You're lucky because you've still got phone signal. You dial 999.  who do you ask for? the cave Rescue. You are walking in the park. You see a strange parcel on the park bench. You pick it up. It's ticking. You put it down and phone 999.  who do you ask for? the bomb disposal. Which number do you call in an emergency situation in Austria? Which number do you call in an emergency from a mobile? (the number works in all European countries) 

Hello. There's a fire in Harrod Street. Can you spell the street please? Yes. It's H-A-double R-O-D. 0K. 

Emergency. Fire, police or ambulance? Ambulance, please! One moment. Hello? Hello. There's an accident. Please come to Ashley Street. Can you spell it, please? Emergency. Fire, police or ambulance? Fire, please! One moment. Hello? Hello? There's a fire. Please come to Gunner Street. Can you spell it, please? Emergency. Fire, police or ambulance? Police, please! One moment. Hello? Hello. There's a robbery. Please come to Jarvis Street. Can you spell it, please?


hire rescue island wave rocks collect wood jump into the sea  Rescue at sea. On November 12th, two young people, Jennifer and Alan Smith, were very lucky — a helicopter rescued them from a small island in the sea. At nine o'clock, Jennifer (17) and Alan (13) hired a boat. It was sunny in the morning, but the weather changed in the afternoon. A strong wind started and it pushed their boat onto the rocks of a small island. There was a big hole in the boat. Soon there was a lot of water in the boat. Jennifer and Alan were happy to get onto the island! Jennifer tried to phone for help on her mobile, but there was no signal. They waited and waited. Then a helicopter arrived. Jennifer and Alan waved and shouted, but the helicopter turned away. Then Alan said: "I've got an idea — let's make a fire!" So they collected wood and started a fire. But the wind was really strong and after 15 minutes the whole island was on fire! "Come on, Alan!" said Jennifer, "We can't stay here!" And they walked back into the very cold water. At that moment, a lucky thing happened — the helicopter returned! The men in the helicopter noticed the smoke and rescued them. In the evening, they were back at home and very happy. "We were really lucky," said Jennifer. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Jennifer and Alan hired a boat on a sunny morning. They pushed the boat onto the rocks of an island. They landed on the island before the storm. Jennifer tried to phone for help, but there was no Signal, her phone was wet and nobody answered. When the helicopter arrived at the island for the first time  there was a fire, the Kids were in the Woods, and the Kids waved. the men in the helicopter noticed the Kids, the smoke and the boat. Why could they not go back to where they hired the boat? Why was the island on fire so soon? Why were they lucky? 

There was a Boy in the river. He shouted help. I jumped into the river. I rescued the Boy. 

There was a robbery. We phoned the Police. The Police arrived. They chased the man. 


Injuries: 108 1 2 3 4 the injuries with the photos. Listen and check. a cut knee a swollen ankle a broken leg a black eye Lucy Leo Lucy Leo Lucy Leo Lucy Leo You're late. I know. Look. Oh, dear. What happened? Well, I was on my way home. I was in the and guess what?park What? There were these kids. Very young kids. About seven or eight years old. I see. They had a football. And you won't believe what happened. Tell me. One of the boys kicked it. High up in the sky. And an amazing thing happened. Really? Tell me more. Who's late?  2 Why does Lucy ask what happened? because he has a black eye... 3 Something happened to Leo. Where did it happen? it happened in the park. 4 What did one of the boys do with the Football he kicked it high up in the sky.

One of the boys kicked the football high up in the sky. The ball got stuck in a tree and the kids were very unhappy. Leo tried to help. He started throwing stones at the ball, but that didn't work. They got a ladder and put it against the tree with the ball in it. Leo climbed up and got the ball back. The kids were very happy and thanked Leo. Finally, Leo started to play football with them. 

