What are they watching? TVI is showing a cartoon. TV2 is showing a nature programme. TV3 is showing a reality show. TV4 is showing a science fiction film. TV5 is showing a fantasy film. TV6 is showing a romantic film. TV7 is showing a music show. TV8 is showing a detective film. TV9 is showing a sports programme. TV10 is showing the news. TV2 is showing a game show. TV12 is showing a quiz show. What's David watching? <sound effect: Cartoon, "What's on the floor?" "VVe're stuck!" What's Andrew watching? <sound effect: Quiz show, "0K, hands on the buzzer. Question l. Who was the first man to walk on the moon? Yes, Kevin. What's your answer?" "Neil Armstrong." "Correct."> What's Joanna watching? <sound effect: Nature programme, "Today on Animals in Africa we are looking at lions. There are lions in many places..."> What are Linda and Stephen watching? <sound effect: Sports programme, "And here we go! And in the lead..."> What are George and Freda watching? <sound effect: Game show, "Ha, ha, ha!!! That's great. 0K, everyone, let's play another game!"> What's Jane watching? <sound effect: Detective film, "There's just one more thing ... where were you last night at ten o'clock. What's Veronica watching? <sound effect: Reality TV show, "And who do you want to leave the house? Call us now, the decision lies with you...' What's Paul watching? <sound effect: News programme, "Good evening and here are the headlines. The president of the US > What's Jack watching? <sound effect: Fantasy film, "Finally! The sword of Indoriandor!"> What are Emily and Holly watching? <sound effect: Science fiction film> What's Alexandra watching? <sound effect: Romantic film, "Oh John!" "Oh Fiona!"> What are James and Charles watching? <sound effect: Music show, "That's the latest from a band called.

love TV. I watch TV for about three hours every day. I always watch it in the afternoon after school and at the weekend. I really like cartoons, nature programmes and music shows. I don't like reality shows or the news very much. My dad loves the news. It's his favourite programme. She watches TV for about two hours every day. She always watches TV in the morning and at the weekend. She likes cartoons, nature programmes and reality shows. Her dad's favourite programme is the news. Her favourite programme is a cartoon of Superman. My favourite programme is the cartoon of Batman. I love it. I don't like TV very much. I watch it, of course, but I only watch about one hour a day. I usually watch it in the evening before I go to bed. I really like reality shows and I quite like detective films. I don't like game shows and quizzes. My brother loves TV. He watches about four hours every day. He watches sport programmes. He loves Football. He watches TV for about two hours every day. 2 He never watches it in the evening before he goes to bed. 3 He doesn't like quizzes. 4 His brother watches TV for about four hours every day. 5 His brother loves watching basketball. 

The remote Control. The shop in Mill Street sold lots of things. In the window I saw a TV remote control. I went into the shop because I needed a new one. There was an old woman behind the desk. I picked up the remote control and she looked up at me. "Be careful," said the old woman. "This is not a normal TV remote control because it has special powers." "Special powers?" I laughed. "Yes," she replied. "Use it carefully and never ever press this button here." She pointed* to a small button with a star on it. "0K," I said. I paid and walked home. "What a strange lady," I thought. My brother Tom was in the living room. The TV was on. It was a film about dinosaurs, but I wanted to watch a cartoon. "Can we watch a cartoon?" I asked. "No," he replied. I took out the remote control and pointed it at the TV. I pressed a button, but nothing happened. I did it again. Still nothing. "What's that?" Tom asked. "A new TV remote control," I replied. "It doesn't work," he laughed.  pointed the remote control at him and pressed a button. Tom froze*. What! I looked at the button. It was the pause button. I pressed it again. He was normal again. I pressed the rewind button*. My brother started talking backwards. I pressed the fast forward button*. He started moving really fast. The TV remote control controlled my brother. This was fantastic, but then I remembered the old lady and her words: "Use it carefully." So I stopped. "Let me look at the remote control," Tom asked. "No," I replied. He jumped up and tried to take the remote control from me. My finger pressed a button. I looked at the remote control. My finger was on the star button. Where was Tom? And then I heard a noise. It was Tom's voice, but it was tiny. "Help me! Help!" I looked at the TV. "Help me, Annie! Please, help me!" There was Tom. He was inside the TV screen. And behind him was a huge T-Rex with its mouth wide open. The Girl saw a remote Control in the shop window. The shopkeeper was an old Woman. At home there was a film About dinosaurs on TV. The shop in Mill Street was a TV shop. T/@ The girl wanted to watch a cartoon. Tom fought his sister to get the control. (D/ F Why is the remote control different? it has Special powers What button does the woman say never to press? the star button. What happens when you press that button? you put somebody inside the tv screen. 


2 3 4 5 6 Annie went into the shop because she needed a new TV remote control. Tom was in the living room and the TV was on. Annie pressed a button, but Nothing happened. Annie pointed the control at Tom  and pressed a button. Tom asked for the TV control because he wanted to look at it. Annie heard Tom's voice, but it was tiny. 

Watching TV: Mum and Dad and me, we often watch TV. We spend a lot of time on quiz shows, news and crime. We often have our tea in front of the TV. But sometimes I say no and leave them and I go into my room. I need a thrilling* book to read. 

Listen and sing. What's on TV today? her a love poem and on the grass hands. What's on TV? What does the paper say? I want to see a game show and also a cartoon. I want to watch the football and a film about the moon. What's on TV today? What does the paper say? It says there's a quiz show and a film about a crime. There's a nature programme and a series "Lost in Time". What's on TV today? What does the paper say? Go watch your science fiction. Go watch your fantasy. I want to go to bed and forget about TV. 

a skateboard a newspaper a newsagent's a bike 
Jimmy wants to talk to Mr Patel about the newspaper round. Mr Patel asks Jimmy if he has got a bike3 Mr Patel is going to pay Jimmy a week. 4 Jimmy tells Mr Patel that he is 13 years old. 5 Mr Patel wants Jimmy to start work at 7 o'clock. Listen - dad, I think I saw him on his bike. With newspapers. yes, that's Right. I gave him the Job - you know, the newspaper round. But is he old enough? yes, he is 13, he told me. but dad, he is in the first year at my School. Kids in the first year aren'T 13. oh dear, are you sure? no, i'm not, but don't worry dad, I'm going to find out.

