My favourite Story
money walk a dream a corner lie down on the ground laugh a Village

Khalid's Dream: a folk tale. Once upon a time, a long time ago, there was a man who lived in a small village in Egypt. His name was Khalid and he was very poor. His house was very small, but he had a garden. In his garden there were four trees — three fig trees and an orange tree. One night, Khalid had a dream. In his dream he went to Cairo. In Cairo he became a very rich man. The next night he had the same dream. He went to Cairo and became rich. When Khalid had the same dream on the third night, he woke up in the morning and said to his wife: "I'm going to Cairo!" "Don't go!" his wife said. But Khalid didn't listen to her. He left his house and started to walk to Cairo. He arrived in Cairo very late at night. It was dark and Khalid was very tired. But he didn't have money for a hotel. So Khalid went to a park. He lay down on the ground and went to sleep. The next day, he walked around in Cairo. Khalid was hungry and thirsty, but he didn't have money. That night, he went back to the park and slept on the ground again. On the third day, when Khalid woke up, a man came up to him and said, "why are you here? Why are you sleeping in the park?" Khalid told the man about his dream. "l had a dream," said Khalid. 'The dream told me to come to Cairo and become rich here." The other man laughed. "Ha, ha, ha," he laughed. "You're crazy. Don't believe dreams! A week ago I also had a dream. In my dream I was in a village far away from Cairo. In the village there was a garden and in the garden there was a tree in each corner — three trees were fig trees and the fourth tree was an orange tree. And under the orange tree I found a bag of gold. Lots of gold! But it was only a dream. I don't believe dreams." Khalid listened to the man. He thought about his house and garden in his village. Khalid said thank you to the man and ran back to his village. He dug a hole under the orange tree in his garden and found — a bag of gold! Khalid lived the rest of his life as a rich and happy man. His dream came true.

animal story adventure story fantasy story detective story horror story story about friendship Comic book Poems 2 3 4 Hello Mike, can I ask you some questions? Yes, of course. Do you read a lot? Yes, I do. What sort of books do you read? Detective stories, fantasy and adventure stories. What about books about friendship and family? No, I don't like them. My sister reads them. What's your favourite book? 

Mike reads a lot.O/ F He doesn't read fantasy stories. T/@ When he was six, his favourite book was The Tale of Despereaux. T/@ When he was a child, his grandpa read to him. O/ F Alison reads a lot. Alison likes stories about friendship and family. T/ F Alison hasn't got a favourite book. T When she was six, her favourite book was.. Tales of Desperaux. What's it about? It's about the adventures of a mouse. What was your favourite book when you were six? Let me think. Oh, I know. The Gruffalo. I really loved it. Did your dad or mum read it to you? No, my grandpa. Hi, Alison. Can I ask you some questions? Yes, sure. Do you read a lot? Well, not a lot. What sort of books do you read? Animal stories, fantasy and stories about friendship and family. What about detective stories? No, I don't like them, Mike reads them. What's your favourite book? The Illustrated Mum. What's it about? It's about a mother and her daughters. The mother is very strange. What was your favourite book when you were 6? Let me think. Sorry, I can't remember. Doesn't matter. Thanks, Alison. 


read a lot. I read a lot of . stories. My favourite book is . When I was six, my favourite book was . read stories to me. I don't read a lot. I like stories, but I don't like stories. My favourite book is When I was six, my favourite book was.. My mom didn't read stories to me.

Read the story. Why lions don't like jackals ne day the jackal was walking in the grass near some big rocks. He was hungry, but for a long time he didn't find food. Suddenly he saw a snake. He jumped, but he didn't catch it. The snake was too fast. The jackal walked on, his nose on the ground. When he looked up again, he saw a lion behind a bush. The jackal jumped behind a rock. At first, the lion didn't see the jackal. But then he came closer. The jackal was scared. "The lion is going to eat me," the jackal thought. So he thought of a plan. "Help! Help!" the jackal cried. When the lion heard the jackal, he stopped. "Help! Help, great lion!" cried the jackal. "What's the matter?" said the lion. "Quick," shouted the jackal. "Can you see that big rock above us? It's falling. It will kill you and me. Oh, lion, help!" The lion looked up. He was scared. "Please lion, you are so strong, please hold up the rock." So the lion put his shoulder to the rock. "Oh, thank you, great king!" shouted the jackal. "Let me go for help. I can ask the elephant to hold up the rock." The jackal ran away and the lion stood under the rock holding it up. But the jackal didn't come back. After an hour the lion was so tired that he stopped holding up the rock. But the rock didn't fall. "He tricked me again," shouted the lion. He was very angry. And that is why lions do not like jackals. 


The jackal tried to catch a snake. THe jackal was scared of the lion. the jackal tricked the lion. The jackal didn't find any food for a long time. T/ F Lions hunt jackals. The jackal helped the lion. What was the jackal's plan to trick the lion? he cried for help, asked the lion to hold up the rock and ran away. How long did the lion hold the rock for? he held it up for an hours. Why do lions hate jackals? The jackal didn't catch a snake. The lion didn't see the jackal. The rock didn't fall down. The jackal caught a snake. The rock fell down.

THere were four eggs in the chicken's nest. The chicken saw the snake. It was scared. The chicken ran away. The snake ate three eggs and went away. THe chicken went back and put the last egg under leaves. The chicken put a White Stone in the nest. The snake came back and ate the Stone. The snake died.

