ham cheese brown bread fish cucumbers red peppers sausages an apple an orange grapes nuts mineral water ice cream 
I love brown bread.  2 The sausages are great. 3 I don’t like cheese. 4 Can I have an egg, please? 5 I don’t like mineral water. 6 Cucumbers are not for me. 7 Can I have an orange, please? 8 Ice cream. Yummy. 9 We sometimes have fish for dinner. 10 I love red peppers. 11 I never eat nuts. 12 Grapes. Mmmmh. 13 I love ham in my Sandwich. I usually put an apple in my lunch box.
Kids around the world. I'm Jia. I live in Shanghai in China. In my family we often eat rice and noodles. I really like noodles. My mum and dad usually eat tofu for breakfast. I don't like tofu. It's boring. We also eat lots of vegetables* and fruit. I love broccoli and carrots. I sometimes go to the food market with my grandma. There you can buy insects: scorpions, grasshoppers* and crickets*. I never eat insects, but my grandma likes them. We never eat cheese or drink milk at home. My friend Huifen sometimes brings a cheese sandwich to school. Yuck.  I live in Delhi in India. In our family we usually have curry for lunch. We always have bread and rice with our curries. And we often drink yogurt drinks. We always eat our food with our fingers - the fingers of our right hand. We never eat beef. In the north of India lots of people eat frogs' legs and people eat red ants* and their eggs, too. Yuck. I think French people also eat frogs' legs. But they don't eat red ants. I live in Delhi in India. In our family we usually have curry for lunch. We always have bread and rice with our curries. And we often drink yogurt drinks. We always eat our food with our fingers - the fingers of our right hand. We never eat beef. In the north of India lots of people eat frogs' legs and people eat red ants* and their eggs, too. Yuck. I think French people also eat frogs' legs. But they don't eat red ants. I'm Miro. I live in Darwin, Australia. We often eat fish for dinner in our family. My dad and I often go fishing. I like raw* fish. My sister Jane doesn't like raw fish. I think it's great. We eat a lot of chicken, too. Chicken curry is my favourite food. We sometimes have crocodile steak. It's nice. My granddad sometimes goes and looks for grubs*. He loves them. I love them, too. They are great. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Jia likes / doesn't like noodles. Sanjit eats with his right/ left hand. doesn't like curry. Jia sometimes goes shopping with her grandma. T/ F Sanjit eats red ants. Miro doesn't eat grubs. Why doesn't Jia like Tofu? Who eats frogs' legs? What does Miro often do with his dad?
I always drink tea for breakfast. I often have soup for lunch. I never drink milk. I sometimes have an egg for breakfast. I never eat Rice and Curry. We often have a Pizza for lunch or dinner. We Always have fish on Friday. I sometimes have a banana and an apple for breakfast.

 can say: I sometimes drink milk for breakfast. I often eat cheese for lunch. Or: I sometimes have milk for breakfast. I often have cheese for lunch. My sister Kate likes apples and oranges, but she doesn't like kiwis and bananas. My brother Mark likes noodles, but he doesn't like rice. He also likes pizza, but he doesn't like hamburgers.
my mum my dad my sister my brother my best friend My mum likes carrots, but she doesn't like beans. My mum likes Potatoes, but she doesn't like Broccoli.

 What I eat ... REPLY How are you? Here are my answers to your question about my family and food. I always have tea for breakfast. I sometimes have an egg. My little brother doesn't like eggs. He has milk, bread and butter. For lunch we often have noodles. We sometimes have pizza. We sometimes go to a restaurant on Sunday. Then I have beef. My brother doesn't like beef. He has Potatoes or Rice or noodles.
 



