amb 2  cabbage 3  plums 4  pork 5  grapes 6  cheesecake 7  peaches 8  pancakes 9  pumpkin pie 10  strawberries 11  peppers 12  onions 13    pe a r s 14    tur key 15  potatoes 16  tomatoes 17  rice pudding 18  chicken 19  chocolate ice cream 20  beef

In Ella’s basket there are potatoes, onions, there are plums, strawberries and grapes and there is a chicken. In Laura’s basket there are potatoes, tomatoes, there are pears and grapes and there is a slice of beef. Man I n Jacob’s basket there are potatoes, onions, there are pears and grapes and there is a chicken. Woman I n Henry’s basket there are potatoes, tomatoes, onions, there are plums and grapes and there is a chicken. 

Are you ready to order? Mr Hutton Yes, we are. Mrs Hutton I’d like a pizza with ham, cheese and tomatoes. Waiter And to drink? Mrs Hutton Mineral water, please. Mr Hutton I’d like a pizza too – with ham, mushrooms and  green peppers. And an orange juice, please. Ben For me a pizza with ham, sausage and cheese. Waiter And to drink? Ben A cola, please. Vicky And for me a pizza with mushrooms, tomatoes and sausages. Waiter And to drink? Vicky An apple juice, please. 

In the restaurant. Man A table for two, please. Waiter Next to the window, sir? Man That’s fine. Woman Can we have the menu, please? Waiter Certainly, madam. Straight away. Can I get you something to drink? Woman Mineral water, please. Man The same for me. (Two minutes later.) Waiter Here you are. Are you ready to order? Woman Onion soup. Man And the onion soup for me, too. Waiter Thank you. SCENE 2 In the kitchen. Waiter Two onion soups and ... Chef Onion soup? We haven’t got any onions. Waitress I can run over to the supermarket andbuy some. Chef Too late. Let me think. Run over to Johnny’s Restaurant and get two bowls of onion soup. Waitress OK. (Five minutes later.) Chef But that’s tomato soup. Waitress They didn’t have any onion soup. SCENE 3 In the restaurant. Waiter I’m sorry. There isn’t any onion soup. But we’ve got some tomato soup. It’s a special recipe of the chef’s grandma. Woman OK. Bring us the tomato soup. Waiter How did you like our chef’s tomato soup? Man It was fine. Now I’d like the beef withchips and carrots. Woman And for me, the lamb with potatoes and cabbage. Waiter Certainly. In the kitchen. Waiter One beef and one lamb. Chef Is there any lamb in the fridge? Waitress No, there isn’t. Chef What about beef? Have we got any beef? Waitress No, sorry, there isn’t any beef. Chef What can we do? Waitress Johnny’s Restaurant does a good chicken. Chef Run over and get two chickens. SCENE 6 In the restaurant. Waiter Here you are. Woman But we ordered lamb and beef. Waiter Madam, the chicken is the best in town. It’s the chef’s special recipe. Chicken Volcano. Woman OK. The chicken then.
In the kitchen. Waiter Run over to Johnny’s again and get some rice pudding and chocolate ice cream. Waitress OK. SCENE 8 In the restaurant. Waiter For dessert we have rice pudding and chocolate ice cream. Woman That’s fine.
Waiter Here you are. Man Look. There’s a flag on my ice cream. It says: “Johnny’s Restaurant”. Woman I don’t think we’re in the best restaurant in town. Next time we’re going to Johnny’s. The man and woman sit next to the window. T / F  For a starter they order tomato soup. T / F  The waiter brings them nothing for a starter. T / F 4 The man orders beef with Chips and carrots for his main course. 5 The woman wants Potatoes and cabbage with her lamb. 6 Lamb and beef is missing from the fridge. 7 How many times does the waitress go over to Johnny’s? SHe goes over to JOhnny's three times. 8 What does the waiter offer the couple for dessert? He offers them Rice Pudding and chocolate ice cream. 9 What do the couple decide to do after dessert? They decide to go to Johnny's next time.

My Dream. Last night I dreamed of chicken, of rice and cabbage stew. Last night I dreamed of pancakes, and then I dreamed of you. You served me cakes. You served me grapes. You served me pumpkin pie. You said to me,
you said to me, you said to me: Please try. Last night I dreamed of strawberries, of grapes both green and blue. Last night I dreamed of ice cream, and then I dreamed of you. You served me cakes … I tried and tried. I tried and tried. I felt like a balloon. Then I woke up. You said to me:
Come on, it’s breakfast soon!

Sue, are there any plums and peaches in the fridge? Sue There are some plums, but there aren’t any peaches. Are you making fruit salad? Dad Yes. What have we got? Sue There are some grapes and some pears. Dad OK. Are there any strawberries? Sue No, sorry, Dad. There aren’t any.
