a pyramid 2  a temple 3  a sphinx 4  hieroglyphics 5  a papyrus 6  a tomb 7  a Mummy

Question number 1.  What was the name of the Egyptian kings?  a) Presidents, b) Lords,  c) Pharaohs or  d) Emperors? Man The answer is c). Egyptian kings were called Pharaohs. Woman Question number 2. What was the most sacred animal of the Egyptians?  a) the cow, b) the goose,  c) the crocodile or d) the cat? Man The correct answer is d), the cat. For the Egyptians, religion was very important, and the cat was an important animal. It was sacred. Woman Question number 3. A sphinx has a human head and the body of ... Man Here the correct answer is b). In Egypt, there are lots of monuments called sphinxes. They have usually got the head of a human, mostly a king. The sphinx’s body is usually the body of a lion. Woman Question number 4. A river was very important for the Ancient Egyptians. What is its name? Man The correct answer is c), the River Nile. It’s very important for Egypt. Today, more than 90 per cent of the people live along the banks or in the delta of the river. Woman Question number 5. Religion was very important for the ancient Egyptians. This is why they built lots of ... Man The correct answer is d). They built lots of pyramids and temples. Woman Question number 6.  Which of these did the ancient Egyptians invent?  a) bathrooms, b) eye glasses, c) knives or d) paper? Man This is a tricky question because there are actually two correct answers. The ancient Egyptians invented bathrooms. So a) is correct. Rich people had a bathroom in their house. Poor people of course didn’t have bathrooms. They took a bath in the river. The ancient Egyptians didn’t invent eye-glasses. They probably came from Italy. So b) is false. c) is also false. Knives are not an Egyptian invention. But the Egyptians invented paper. They made it from a plant, the papyrus. So d) is correct, too.


Life in ancient Egypt Q: How do we know what life in ancient Egypt was like? A: From documents written on papyrus, from hieroglyphics on stones, and from wall paintings and objects found in tombs. Q: What did people wear? A: People only wore light clothes because it was very hot. They wore sandals on their feet or they went barefoot. The sandals were made of palm leaves. Slaves, workers and children were often naked. People cared a lot about their looks. Men and women wore eye makeup and jewellery. They also used perfumes. Q What work did the Egyptians do? A Many Egyptians worked as farmers.They worked on the fields, but they also helped to build the  pyramids and temples. There were also other jobs. Weavers, for example, made beautiful clothes. They sold the clothes to other people. People paid for the clothes with food, salt and other things. Q: What did people eat?
A: The Egyptians had lots of different food. They hunted fish, ducks and geese. Many people were farmers and had sheep, cattle, goats, pigs, and later also horses. These animals gave them milk, wool, meat and eggs. But they also used the leather, the horns and the fat. The Egyptians even had farms where they kept oxen. They also had lots of vegetables and fruit. Q: What did people do in their free time? A: Hunting and fishing were the most popular sports for the men. Children played with balls and animals made from wood. Rich Egyptians often gave big parties with lots of food and drink. There were musicians, singers, dancers, jugglers and acrobats.  servants put big pieces of perfumed fat on people's heads. When the fat melted, it ran down their faces. This made them smell nice.  Some people in Egypt did not wear clothes. 2 Men wore make-up and used perfumes too. 3 Only slaves built the pyramids. 4 Weavers got a lot of money for their work. 5 The Egyptians ate meat, vegetables and fruit. 6 Children went hunting and fishing. 

Professor Jenkins, we know that the pyramids in Egypt are the tombs of the pharaohs. Which is the biggest pyramid? Expert The pyramid for the Pharaoh Khufu. It’s very, very big! For example, the pyramid is a hundred and forty-three metres high. Interviewer A hundred and forty-three metres high? Wow. Expert That’s right. And each side of the pyramid more than two hundred and thirty metres long. Interviewer OK. And, what about the stones that the Egyptians used to build it? Expert Very big too! There are more than two million stones – that’s right, two million stones – in the pyramid of Khufu, and each stone weighs about two thousand kilograms. Interviewer Two thousand kilograms – that’s very, very heavy! Expert Yes, indeed. Now, to build the pyramid, we know that more than one hundred thousand men worked on it ... Interviewer Uh huh. And it took more than twenty years to build the pyramid. Interviewer That’s amazing. Now, can you tell us something more About..The pyramids in Egypt are the tombs of the pharaohs. The biggest pyramid is the one for the Pharaoh Khufu. Did you know? 1 It is 143 metres high, and each side is more than 230 metres long. 2 There are more than  stone blocks in the pyramid. 3 Each stone is about 2.000 kilograms. 4 More than 2 million men worked to build it. 5 It took more than 20 years to build it. 

When a pharaoh died, the priests put the mummy inside a pyramid. The Egyptian people believed that after a long time, the pharaoh's spirit woke up. Then it climbed up the steps of the pyramid to meet Ra, the sun god. They also believed that when the pharaoh woke up, he needed many things - for example food, clothes and jewellery. The people put these things in the pyramid with the mummy. Of course, everyone knew there were wonderful things inside the pyramid. Soldiers guarded the tombs day and night to stop thieves. But hundreds of years later, robbers found many of the tombs and stole everything inside. One of the most famous pharaohs was Tutankhamun. He became pharaoh when he was nine, but he died when he was only nineteen. He is famous because the robbers did not find his tomb. When an Englishman
called Howard Carter found the tomb of Tutankhamun in 1922, it was still full of wonderful clothes and jewellery. Who put the mummy in the pyramids? 2 Who met the pharaoh's spirit at the top of the pyramid? 3 Who was Ra? 4 Who guarded the tombs? 5 Who died when he was only 19? 6 Who found Tutankhamun's tomb?

The story of Howard Carter. Howard Carter was born in England in 1874. He was very interested in  history. When he was 17, he went to Egypt. He had one wish - he wanted to find the tomb of Tutankhamun. Another Englishman, Lord Carnarvon, had the same dream. He gave Howard some money to find the tomb. For Five years Carter tried to find it, but he didn't find anything. Then he went back to England. When he returned to Egypt, he brought a yellow canary with him. "A golden bird!" shouted one of the Egyptian workers. "The bird will show us the tomb!" On November 41\ 1922, Carter's workmen discovered the tomb of a pharaoh. Carter wanted to open it the next day. When he came back to his house that night, his servant came up to him and said: "A snake killed your yellow bird. I'm sure it was the pharaoh's snake. Don't open the tomb! There is a curse on the tomb - the curse of the pharaoh! It can kill hundreds of people and animals." But Carter didn't listen to him. He sent a telegram to Lord Carnarvon in England. Carnarvon arrived in Egypt on November 26th. Carter made a hole in the door of the tomb. He took a candle and looked inside. Behind him, Lord Carnarvon asked: "Can you see anything?" Carter answered: "Yes, wonderful things!" In the tomb there were lots of treasures. There was also the mummy of the boy-king, Pharaoh Tutankhamun! A few days later, an insect bit Lord Carnarvon on the left cheek. He became ill and died. Back in England, his dog died on the same day. When workmen took off the bandages from the mummy of tutankharnun, they saw that there was also a wound on the pharaoh's left cheek. Was there really a curse of the pharaoh? When Howard Carter was seventeen, he went to Egypt. He wanted to find the tomb of Tutankhamun. One day, his workmen discovered a tomb. His servant was scared and said: "Don't open it! There's a curse!" But Howard Carter didn't listen. He sent a telegram to Lord Carnarvon. When Lord Carnarvon arrived, they opened the tomb. They found lots of treasures inside, and the mummy of Tutankhamun.But when Lord Carnarvon was back in England, he and his dog died on the same day.

The curse of the pharaoh. First  Hannah, Luke and their parents looked at the pictures on the walls in the tourist centre. They showed scenes from ancient Egypt. There were hundreds of farmers and slaves building a pyramid. Then they took a tour to one of the pyramids. Inside the pyramid it was so much cooler than in the hot sun. "Stay with me all the time!" the guide said. "It's dangerous in here. There's a curse of the pharaoh!" "The curse of the pharaoh?" asked another tourist in the group. "What's that?" "There's one more tomb in this pyramid. But nobody knows where it is," said the guide. "A few years ago, some scientists wanted to find it. They went into the pyramid, but they never came back. People say the curse of the pharaoh killed them!" "The curse of the pharaoh !" Hannah laughed out loud. "But I'd love to find that tomb!" she whispered to Luke. Luke didn't say anything. He was in front of a hole in the wall. "That's funny. The guide didn't say anything about this hole!" he said. "Let's go through here! I've got a torch so we can find our way back." "Shh!!" said Hannah. "Mum and Dad mustn't see us!" The two children climbed through the hole. Suddenly, there was a loud noise and a second later a big stone filled the hole! Hannah and Luke tried to move the big stone. But they couldn't get out. "The curse of the pharaoh!" whispered Luke. And now, please, follow me to see the pyramid. And stay with me all the time. It’s dangerous. Tourist  Why? Guide There’s a curse of the pharaoh in this pyramid. Tourist  What’s the curse of the pharaoh? Guide There’s one more tomb in this pyramid, but nobody knows where it is.A few years ago some scientists tried to find it. But they never came back. People say the curse of the pharaoh killed them! Hannah The curse of the pharaoh! Haha! Luke Look here, Hannah! The guide didn’t say anything about that hole. Let’s go through here. We can find our way back because I’ve got a torch! Luke The curse of the pharaoh! Hannah What happened to the torch, Luke? Luke I don’t know. Let’s move on. Narrator Some time later. The children were scared and couldn’t find a way out. Luke Ouch! My knee. Hannah Look! This must be the way out. We’re safe. Hannah  Wow ! Luke What is it?I don’t believe it! This  is ... . But ... Why? First the family go to the visitor centre. 2 Inside the pyramid it is not as hot as outside.  The guide tells everyone to stay close. 4 The guide says t here is one  in the pyramid. 5 The scientists who looked for the tomb never came back. 6 Hannah really wants to find the tomb. 7 What do the children decide to explore? a hole in the wall. 8 What happened when the children climbed through the hole? a big stone filled the hole. 9 What does Luke try to understand at the end? 1 Daniel thinks Darkman is trying to kill them. T / F 2 Darkman attacked Gillian on the beach. T / F 3 Gillian hit Darkman with her bag. T / F 4 Gillian doesn't want to join the team. T / F 5 Gillian is going to meet Sunborn. T / F 



