Families

My mother’s first name is Natasha ... Interviewer How do you spell Natasha? Thank you. Ben My father’s first name is William. Interviewer  Sorry? Ben My father’s first name is William, and my grandfather’s first name is Anthony. Interviewer Sorry, how do you spell Anthony?  My aunt’s name is Susan and my uncle’s name is Fred. Interviewer Alright. Susan and Fred. And what about your cousin? Ben My cousin’s name is Jo. Interviewer What about your grandmother? Ben Her first name’s Lisa. Interviewer Thank you.


A famous mother. Angelina Jolie is an American superstar. In 2001, when she was 26, she became famous all over the world with the film Lara Croft: Tomb Raider. But Angelina Jolie is not only a superstar. She also visits refugee* camps in Asia and  Africa and in 2001 she gave a million dollars to help refugees. She also built schools in Cambodia and gives money to hospitals for children. In 2002, Jolie adopted her first child, the seven-month-old Maddox Chivan. The boy was born in a small village in Cambodia and had no Mum or Dad. In 2005, Jolie and her third husband Brad Pitt adopted Zahara, a baby from Ethiopia. And a year later their first child, a daughter, was born. Her name is Shiloh Nouvel. In 2007, Jolie adopted a three-year-old boy from Vietnam. His name is Pax Thien. Like Maddox, the boy didn't have a Mum or Dad. In 2008, Jolie had twins, a boy, Knox Leon and a girl, Vivienne Marcheline. American magazines bought the first pictures of the babies for 14 million dollars. The money went to the Jolie-Pitt foundation that helps children all over the world. Angelina Jolie gives a lot of money to poor people. T / F 2 Angelina Jolie adopted her first child before she became famous. TI F 3 Angelina Jolie has six children. T / F 4 Angelina Jolie sold the picture of her baby twins for a lot of money. T / F 

The coolest things kids learn. For most parents, what is important is that their child is good at school. Maths, reading, writing, foreign languages ... well, yes, of course! But what other things are there that kids have learnt and are proud of? Read our interviews and find out.  Joanna, 12: Make a fire. Two years ago during a summer holiday my mum taught me how to make a fire without burning myself. I loved that. Now, we live in the city, so I can't often make fires. But sometimes we go to the countryside for short holidays, and that's my big chance. There is nothing better than cooking some sausages on a fire you have made yourself. And it's great to sit around a fire with friends in the evening and have a chat. Jonathan, 13: Drive a tractor. Last summer, my family and I spent two weeks on a farm. First I was a bit bored - I missed my friends. One day, the farmer saw me hanging around, doing nothing. So he asked me if I wanted to help him. I wanted to say no, but said yes of course. We got on the tractor and drove out to the fields. There, he asked me if I could drive the tractor for him. Of course I  couldn't. So he showed me and it wasn't that difficult. I so loved it. The coolest holiday ever! Vicky, 12: Stay calm. When things went wrong, I often panicked and started to shout or to cry. In my last holiday, my best friend Elisabeth invited me to go on a course with her, What teens should learn for life. The first thing I learnt was not to panic. I learnt that when we are in panic, we make big mistakes, we get confused, or get scared and then make bad decisions*. So you know what I learnt? When something goes wrong, breathe, and count to ten. Keep calm. What does Joanna like about making a fire?  2 What did Jonathan think of their farm holidays first?  3 Why do you think he said yes when the farmer asked him to help him? 4 Why does Vicky think it's important to keep cool? How does Vicky keep calm?  6 What is the coolest thing you can do?

Hi, Natalie. Have a look at these activities here. Which of them do you like doing? Natalie OK, give me a moment. What have you got there? Making a fire, building things, reading, playing football, using tools, climbing trees, going shopping and dancing. OK, here we go. I like making fires... I love doing this actually. Last year we were on a holiday in Ireland. One evening, the weather was really nice, and my dad and I made a fire on the beach. We cooked some sausages for the family then, and we ate them on the beach. That was great. So OK, that’s one. Then... I like climbing trees, and I like dancing. Interviewer T hanks, Natalie. Cool. And now Dylan. What about you? Dylan Well, I like making fires, too... I like reading. It’s a great hobby for me. I read every day. And I’ve got lots of books. And then I like using tools and building things. Last weekend I went to see my best friend, Charlie. His dad has got lots of tools, and he lets us use them. So we got some wood, and we built a little bird house for their garden. It’s really cool. Great stuff. 

What's in a family? I'm Lisa, and I'm from Galway in Ireland. My mum, my mum's boyfriend Mike, my sister Hannah and I live in a large flat. Mike moved in with us three years ago. My real dad also lives in Galway, but he and Mum aren't married any more. He moved out five years ago, and now he lives in a little house with his new wife, Dorothy. Hannah and I go to see them every weekend. Mum says we are a single parent family, but I don't think so. We still see our father, and there are Mike and Dorothy. They're both very nice, and we have a lot of fun with them. I'm Amar and I'm from Birmingham in England. I live with my mum and dad and my brother Vik.as and my sister Karisma in a nice house in Selly Oak. My grandmother Jaya also lives with us, and for two years my cousin Kuna! also lived in our house. He was here from Allahabad in India. He studied at the university in Birmingham. I like him, and next summer I'm going to visit him in Allahabad. I'm Les. I'm from Sydney in Australia. My mum's a single parent and I live with her. My dad lives in Darwin and I don't see him very often. I haven't got any brothers or sisters. My mum works in a restaurant, and I often stay with my grandparents. They live down the road. Sometimes I go and see my mum at the restaurant. I'm Denise, and I'm from Angola, but I live in the Dukwi refugee camp in Botswana. We had to leave Angola eight years ago because of the war. Now my mum, my dad, my three brothers and my uncle Joao live in Dukwi camp. I go to school here. My brothers have to help my dad with farming. It's very hard work and we don't have much food. My uncle Joao works for the Red Cross and translates from Portuguese into English. He likes his job. Lisa lives with her mum I dad in Galway in Ireland. 2 Her dad doesn't live I lives with his new wife, Dorothy.
3 Lisa likes I doesn't like her mum's new partner, Mike. 4 Les sees his mother more often than his father. 5 When Les' mum is working, he lives with his grandparents. 6 Amar lives in Selly Oak , but his cousin is from Allahabad. 7 Who lives with both of their parents? 8 Who of the four children do you think has the most difficult life? Why? 9 Compare Lisa and Les. What is the same about them? 

Dad, can I go? Yes. but you must be home by eight. You mustn't be late, Rory! But Dad. That's not fair. All the others stay till ten. I don't care about t he others. Dad, please. I just want to stay till ten. No, you mustn't stay out so late. Let's say you must be home by 9.30. Great. Thanks, Dad. Mum, can I borrow your notebook? Mum How long for? Fred An hour? Mum To do what? Fred To check something on the internet. For school. Mum Alright. But you must put it back. And you mustn’t go into my private files. And you mustn’t surf around. And you mustn’t print out everything you find. And you must switch it off before you put it back on my desk. Fred  Mum? Mum  Yes ? Fred Forget it. 

Today's anecdote is about Norbert Wiener (1894-1964). He was a famous mathematician who lived in America. Professor Wiener was a real genius, but he was also a bit absentminded*. This is why there are a few funny anecdotes about him. Here is our favourite: One day the Wieners moved to another house. His wife gave him a little piece of paper and said: "Norbert, we're moving today. I wrote the new address on this piece of paper." "Thank you: said Wiener and put the piece of paper into his jacket. At the university, he needed a piece of paper to make some notes. He took the paper out of his jacket. He wrote something on it. Later, he left it in his office. Then he walked home - but to the old address. Suddenly he remembered. "Ah yes, a new house, a new address. Damn, where's that piece of paper?" But of course he couldn't find it. Then he looked around and saw a little girl. "Little girl," he said, "do you know where the Wieners  live?" "Yes, Dad. Mum sent me to find you. I'll take you home now," the girl answered. Norbert Wiener was good at maths. T / F 2 He often forgot things. T / F 3 Mrs Wiener wrote the new address on some paper. T / F 4 Mr Wiener worked at the university. 5 Mr Wiener wrote some notes on the piece of paper. 6 Mr Wiener left his address in the office. 7 Where did Mr Wiener go after work? to the old address .. 8 Who was the little girl? his  daughter. 9 Why was she at the house?

