Welcome Welcome, welcome to our school. A place for ghosts and that's so cool. Here you learn to pass through doors. Here you learn to float above floors. Here you learn to rattle chains. Here you learn to make big stains.
Welcome, welcome ... Here you learn to take off heads. Here you learn to float above beds. Here you learn to scream at night and how you can win a fight. Welcome, welcome ...  The school for young ghosts

Good evening. oh. Welcome to our school. On your first night I'm going to teach you … About castles in Britain? No, that's next week. Tonight you're
going to learn how to pass through walls. And doors? Yes, of course.  But we can open doors easily. Be quiet, you silly ghost! Passing through locked doors, of course. Sorry, sir. Do we learn how to scream loudly too? Not this year. That's in year three. What about scaring people? That's next month. I want to learn how to take my head off.  That's in year two. Tonight you're going to learn how to pass through walls. OK? Is it difficult to learn?  Passing through a wall can be difficult. Sometimes ghosts get stuck. I know, sir. My aunt got stuck in a wall when I was a baby. She's still there. The poor woman! Ooooooooooooooooh! Be quiet! Now, you have to walk quietly. You mustn't say a word. Can I rattle my chains. Aren't you listening? You have to walk quietly. No rattling. Fast or  slowly? Don't walk too fast and don't walk too slowly. I'll show you. Yes, please. OK, watch me .. Where's the teacher now? In the wall. He got stuck. Hurray! What a great first lesson!   It's the first day I night at the school for the young ghosts. 2 They are going to learn about castles in Britain next week. 3 The ghosts are going to learn how to pass through locked doors and walls.4 When do they learn how to scream loudly? 5 What do the young ghosts want to know about passing through walls? 6 Where is the aunt of ghost 7? 7 The teacher says to the ghosts that they mustn't walk too fast or they will get stuck. 8 The teacher gets stuck at the end of the lesson. 9 The ghosts think that the first lesson was great.

fence2  deckchair3  sprinkle4  cooker5  nail roast potatoes  prison  feather9 put a spell on someone10 car  boot

Abracadabra, one, two, three. Debbie and her brother Robert were playing ball behind the house. Suddenly the ball landed in their neighbour's garden. "I'll get it," said Robert. "Be careful," Debbie said, "Mr Blogg loves to eat children for lunch." Robert didn't laugh. Mr Blogg was very unfriendly and Robert was scared of him. Slowly and quietly, Robert climbed over the fence. He looked through the bushes. The ball was right behind Mr Blogg's deckchair. Then everything happened very fast. Mr Blogg got up and shouted: "This time I'll get you!" Robert quickly climbed back over the fence. After a minute, something came flying through the air. Robert and Debbie looked at it. "That was our ball," Robert said quietly. There was a big nail in the ball. The following Saturday was Debbie's thirteenth birthday. They had a party in the garden with lots of friends. The young people were having a lot of fun. Suddenly Robert and Debbie's dad came into the garden. "Mr Blogg was here," he said. "You're making too much noise. Come into the house." The young people walked angrily into the house. "Can we go out later and roast some Potatoes over a fire?" Debbie asked. "Of course," said her dad, "but don't make any noise." An hour later they went out to roast the potatoes. They were very quiet, but after ten minutes they heard the doorbell. It was Mr Blogg. Then Dad came into the garden and told them to put out the fire. "Mr Blogg says there is too much smoke," he said. "I really don't like Mr Blogg," said Debbie. Three days lat er Debbie and Robert were looking for Snowy, their cat. They found her under the bushes near the fence. Snowy was very ill. Robert also found a rotten fish. "We didn't have fish this week," said Debbie. "I'm sure Mr Blogg threw the fish over the fence." They carried the cat into the house. "Poor Snowy," said Debbie, "I really don't like Mr Blogg." The next day Debbie was in the garden with a book. "What are you reading?" Robert asked. "It's a book on magic," said Debbie. "Sally gave it to me." "Why are you reading that?" asked Robert. "I want to put a spell on Mr Blogg." "Spells don't work," said Robert. 11D0 you want to help me or not?" asked Debbie. "OK," said Robert. "What do I have to do?" "The book says that we have to get five things from Mr Blogg," answered Debbie. "We can do that easily," said Robert. At ten o'clock that night, Debbie and Robert climbed the fence into Mr Blogg's garden. They found a feather, the rest of a cigar, a piece of bread, half a hot dog and a bottle of beer that was half full. They climbed back into their garden, put all the things in a pot and hid it in the garden shed. The next day they put the pot on the cooker and filled it with water. They cut up the feather, the rest of the cigar, the piece of bread, the rest of the hot dog and threw it in the water together with the beer. Then they filled an empty bottle of orange juice with the brown stuff. "What do you want to do now?" Robert asked. "We have to go into Mr Blogg's garden and sprinkle this stuff round his house." They went over to t he fence and listened carefully. Nothing. They climbed over and started to sprinkle the brown stuff. When Robert and Debbie got to the garage they stopped. The door of the garage was open and they could see Mr Blogg by his car. He was putting boxes into the boot. When he saw Debbie and Robert, he shouted: "Now I've got you." Debbie and Robert ran as fast as they could. When they climbed the fence Robert lost one of his trainers. Mr Blogg picked it up. "I'll show it to your dad when he comes home," he shouted. Then he got into his car and went away. "What can we do now?" asked Robert. "Dad's going to be very angry." "let's go into town and see Grandma," said Debbie. "We can have dinner with her. And when we get back, everything will be over." When they arrived at Grandma's place they phoned their mum. We'll be back after dinner," Debbie said. After dinner Grandma brought them back in her car. There was a Police car in front of Mr Blogg's house. Debbie and Robert went over and talked to a policeman. "Mr Blogg had an accident in town," the police officer said. "Is he in hospital?" asked Debbie. "No, he's in prison because we found lots of stolen computers in the boot of his car. And the house is also full of stolen things." "So your spell worked," said Robert. "Yes, it did," said Debbie. "But I'm glad he isn't in hospital."  The children live next door to Mr Blogg. T / F 2 Robert is afraid of Mr Blogg. T / F 3 Mr Blogg complains about Robert's party. T / F 4 What did Mr Blogg give to Snowy?  5 What do the children decide to do?  6 What do they need for the spell?  7 One of the trainers falls off when he climbs over the fence. 8 The children go to see grandma to help them stop worrying. 9 The police find lots of stolen computers in Mr Blogg's house. 

Hi, Julia. What’s your favourite TV-series? Julia Right now? Scorpion maybe, which is about a network of super-geniuses. But I also like watching re-runs of the Wizards of Waverly Place. Interviewer R eally? What do you like about it? Julia First, that it is about wizards. I really like that. I love the way that the Russos family lead a normal life but are actually wizards. Interviewer And who’s your favourite character? Julia Definitely Alex – because she’s played by Selena Gomez. I think she was really awesome when the series started in 2007. Interviewer I s there anything else you like about the series? Well, what I like best is that it is actually very funny.  Interviewer Do you watch it on TV? Julia  Most of the time, I don’t. I wanted to watch it online but Mum didn’t want me to. So she got me the DVDs and sometimes my family and I watch three episodes in one go.

"What can we do?" said a ghost. "We must help our teacher," said the smallest ghost. He gave his chains to another ghost. He walked to the wall. "Don't walk too slowly and don't walk too fast," the others shouted. So the smallest ghost began to walk slowly and quietly through the wall. In the wall, he took the teacher's hand and they both went through the wall. "Hurray!" all the young ghosts shouted and they rattled their chains loudly. "Thank you very much," the teacher said to the smallest ghost. "That's alright," said the smallest ghost.




