Where we live We  all know what a house is. It has a roof, walls, rooms, windows and doors. There might be a staircase. There might be a cellar underneath it or a garden around it. But not all houses are like this. Take a look around the world and see how different houses can be. Houses and Homes. Around twenty million Americans live in trailer homes. They usually keep them in special parks. They are like little villages. In the park the owners connect their trailers to electricity and water. Trailers are a cheap way of living in your own home and, if you get tired of one place, you can always move your home to another park. The Americans aren't the only people who have moveable houses. The Mongolian people in Central Asia move their houses a lot. Their houses are "yurts". When there isn't enough grass for their sheep any more, they take down their houses. They put the parts on the backs of their camels and horses. They then carry the parts to other places where there is enough food for the animals. In some parts of the world people live in houses that are not on the ground. For example, some people in South East Asia build their houses on stilts*. They do this because their houses are near water. The stilts keep their homes high above the water and out of danger. Other people actually live on the water. The Uros people live on Lake Titicaca in Peru. There are about two thousand of them on fifty floating islands of reeds. Reeds are long, strong grasses. They use the reeds to build their houses. When the Uros want to visit a neighbour they move from island to island by boat. Finally, in the jungle of Costa Rica some people live in tree houses. There is even a tree house hotel. There are wooden bridges between the houses so that people can visit their neighbours easily. How many Americans live in trailer homes? 2 When do the Mongolian people move their homes? Why do people build their houses on stilts?  What do the Uros use to build their houses? 5 How do the people in Costa Rican tree houses visit their neighbours?

a cooker2 a sink3 curtains4 a fridge5 a cupboard6 a radiator7 a wardrobe8 a lamp9 a bedside table10 a bed11 a rug12 a chair13 a  carpet14 an  armchair15 a table16 a Sofa

Whose schoolbag is this? Boy 1 It’s Joanna’s. Mother Well, it shouldn’t be on the sofa. Take it to her room, please. Boy 1 Why me? It’s hers, not mine! CONVERSATION TWO. Boy 2 I like your room. Boy 1 Thanks. I share it with my brother. This is my bed, and that’s his. Boy 2 Right. Is this your computer? Boy 1 Yes and no – I mean, it’s ours! CONVERSATION THREE. Mother Whose trainers are those? Are they yours? Girl No – they’re Mike’s! I borrowed them, and they got dirty – so now I’m cleaning them. OK – but don’t clean them here in the bathroom! Wash them in the kitchen! CONVERSATION FOUR. Boy 1 Mum – why is there a dictionary here on the fridge? Mother Oh, that – yes, can you take it to Mr and Mrs Smith next door, please? Boy 1 OK. Is it theirs? Mother No, it’s ours, but they want to borrow it. 

Whose is it? Is it yours? Boy 1 No, it isn’t mine. Girl 1 Whose is it? Is it Mike’s? Boy 1 No, it isn’t his. Girl 1 Whose is it? Is it Sue’s? Boy 1 No, it isn’t hers. Girl 1 Whose is it? Jane and Paul’s? Boy 1 No, it isn’t theirs. Both Whose is it? Whose is it? Group Give it to us. It’s ours! And it’s so good! Mmm!


The best place in my house. The best place in my house is the kitchen. There's a big table and four chairs where we have breakfast and dinner. There's a big window and we can look into the garden. There's a sink and a fridge, but no washing machine (that's in the garage}. Our cat's basket is in the kitchen, too, and she sleeps there at night. I like the kitchen because it's a place for all the family. lt's always warm in there too!

Leo Hello. I'm looking for my watch. I think I lost it at school this
morning. Secretary OK, let's see what we can do. What's it like? Leo Well, it's white. It's made of plastic. Secretary OK. so it's plain white. is it? Leo No, sorry. The watch face is White with some orange on it, but the strap is different. Secretary OK. So what's the strap like? Leo It's striped. Orange, green, purple and ... erm ... red. Secretary Are you certain?  Leo Yes, it's orange, green, purple and red. Secretary And what's the strap made of? Leo It's made of metal. No, sorry. It's made of plastic. Secretary Are you sure?  Leo Yes, yes. It's made of plastic, and it's striped orange, green, purple and red. Secretary OK, so let's see what we've got. 

