Jenny's Jokes. Hi! My name's Jenny and welcome to my joke pages. Every week I choose a topic and ask you to send me your favourite jokes. Last week I chose "doctor, doctor" jokes. You sent me hundreds. Here are my favourite six. What do you think? Vote for each joke on the star chart and let's find out which is the greatest "doctor, doctor" joke in the world. Doctor, doctor, I've broken my arm in two places. Don't go back to either of them. 
Doctor, doctor, I couldn't drink my medicine after my bath like you told me. Why not? Well, after I drank my bath, I didn't have room for the Medicine. Doctor, doctor, please come to my house quickly. My son has
swallowed* my pen. What should I do? Doctor Use a pencil until I arrive. Doctor, doctor, I've lost my memory. Doctor When did this happen? Patient When did what happen? Doctor, doctor, I've only got 59 seconds to live. Doctor OK. Give me a minute and I'll call you back. Doctor, doctor, I think I need glasses. Doctor You certainly do. This is the bookshop! 2 Patient Doctor, doctor. I think I’m a sheep. Doctor How do you feel? Patient Very baa baad. 3 Patient Doctor, doctor, what’s the quickest way to get to hospital? Doctor Lie down in the road outside.

Sue has got a pain in her ankle. Emily has got a pain in her back. Tim's head hurts. William's throat hurts. Jacob's knee hurts. Jessica has got stomach ache. Does your head hurt? Yes, I've just walked into a lamp post. What's the matter? I think I've hurt my toe.

Does your head hurt? Man 1 Yes, I’ve just walked into a lamp post. Man 2  Ouch. Woman 2 What’s the matter? Man 2 I think I’ve broken my toe. Woman 3 There’s blood on your shirt. Man 3 Yes, I’ve just cut my hand. Man 4 Why is he walking like that? Woman 4 He’s hurt his ankle. Man 4 Oh dear. Man 5 Why is she crying? Woman 5 She’s just dropped a heavy box on her foot. Man 5 That’s a shame. Woman 6 Come quickly. Man 6 Why? What’s the matter? Woman 6 Kevin’s fallen out of the tree. 

The world's new Gold. The Amazon Rainforest is very important for our planet. It's the largest rainforest in the world and it produces more than 20% of our oxygen. But the Amazon is in danger. People are cutting down the trees to sell the wood and make money quickly. Big companies are clearing away the trees so they can have more land for their huge farms. The Amazon is also home to a lot of wildlife and many of the world's animals, birds, insects and fish live there. There are also more than 430,000 different types of plants in the forest and some of them are very special. These plants can help sick people. Scientists have found more than 2,000 plants in the Amazon Rainforest that can help the fight against cancer. There are also many other plants there that can help the fight against different illnesses. These plants are really valuable for medical science. They are the world's new gold. Five hundred years ago, more than 10,000,000 Indians lived in the Amazon Rainforest. Now there are less than 200,000. The Indian medicine men know a lot about these special plants. They know what illnesses the plants can fight against and they know how to use them. But many of the medicine men are now very old. We must listen to what they can tell us. It is important for the world that we learn what they know!
The Amazon Rainforest produces 20% I 100% of our oxygen.2 People cut down lots of trees to make big fires I big money. 3 You can find lots of animals, birds, fish and plants in the Amazon Rainforest. 4 There are more than 430,000 types of plants - they can all help sick people. T / F 5 Scientists are interested in plants that can help people with cancer. The Indians don't know much about the special plants in the rainforest. T / F 7 There are fewer Indians living in the rainforest than in the past. Why is this, do you think? 8 If more and more of the rainforests are cut down, what will the consequences be? 9 Why is it important to listen to the medicine men?  Because big parts of the rain forest have been cut down or taken over by European settlers and big  companies. The settlers also carried over diseases like measles and influenza. There are wars between the tribes and against the settlers. 8  Many species of animals and plants, also plants used for medicine, will die out. Climate change will progress more quickly. Many tribes and animals will lose their living space. Many renewable resources will be lost. 9 Because it is important for the world that we learn what they know.

I've hurt my head. I've hurt my back. I've hurt both of my knees. I've hurt my arm. I've hurt my leg. Please, call a doctor, please. She's hurt her head. She's hurt her back. She's hurt both of her knees. She's hurt her arm. She's hurt her leg. Please, call a doctor, please . 

