Light rain in the North. The weather today. The good weather continues. Early morning clouds give way to lots of sunshine. Nicely cool and dry at the coast with lower temperatures in the North. Very hot in the South with temperatures in the 100s Fahrenheit. 

windy, rainy, thunderstorm, cloudy, hot, sunny, Cold, foggy, snowy

Today: Sunny, some clouds north of Leicester.Thick fog in the Stoke area will clear up later. Temperatures between 3·c and 12'C. Winds 10-20 mph. Outlook for tomorrow: light rain in the Stoke area. Sunny in the Leicester area. More rain in the Malverns and thunderstorms coming from the north in the evening. Strong winds. Temperatures between 8'C and 15 c.

Weatherwoman And here’s the weather for today. It will be quite sunny all day in the south of England, and in the London area. Temperatures will go up from 16 to 25ºC. The Midlands and Wales will see some clouds in the morning, and I’m afraid they won’t go away. Temperatures will go up to 20ºC. In Scotland there will be clouds and some rain. And, finally in Northern Ireland, there will be some heavy thunderstorms. That’s it from the weather. Goodbye! WEATHER REPORT B Weatherman And good evening to you. I’m Jeremy and here’s the weather for tomorrow.There’ll be some rain in Northern Scotland and Northern Ireland.The Midlands will have sunshine, with some fog on the coast of Wales. Temperatures will rise to a maximum of 20ºC. The south will be very bright, but in the London area there will be some cloud. Temperatures will go up to 25ºC. That’s it from me, goodbye and I’ll see you tomorrow. WEATHER REPORT C Weatherwoman Good morning to you, I’m Rita, and here is the weather for the rest of the day. Northern Ireland is in for a beautiful day today, with lots of sunshine and temperatures around 20ºC. Scotland will also see a lot of sun.The Midlands and Wales will see some light rain coming in from the east. Temperatures will be around 18ºC. The south of England will have quite a lot of fog near the coast, and some heavy cloud in the London area. Make sure you have an umbrella with you. That’s it from me, have a nice day.

Nice day, today. That's right. It's really nice. But... But what? They say it'll rain later. Oh, really. That's bad. Why's that? I wanted to go for a walk with you. Really? Let's go. But...But what? I'll get an umbrella. Planning a trip. Highland Hotel Aviemore. Can I help you? Yes, I'd like to ask you about a hiking holiday. Yes. What's the weather like at your place right now? Well, it's raining, and it's pretty cold.  What about next week?They say it'll be a bit warmer. But are you sure? Well, I can't promise, of course. They say it'll be warmer and less windy. And towards the end of the week it'll be very sunny. Lovely. Thank you.

"And the weather for tomorrow…" Dad OK, have we finished packing? Has everybody got their swimming trunks and bathing suits? Jane Yes, Dad. Do I need a sweater? Dad I don't think so. It won't be very cold in the evenings. (Turns to Jamie.) Jamie, turn off the TV. We're leaving in a few minutes. Jamie Just a second, Dad. The weather report is coming on. Hey, Dad, listen to this. (He turns up the volume.) Weatherman In the south of England showers will be quite heavy and the sun won't come out for another few days. Temperatures will drop to 10° Celsius during the night and only go up to 17° Celsius during the day. There might also be a few  thunderstorms. The weather situation will only get better after the weekend - and that's all from us for today. Mum Turn it down, Jamie. Come here, and help with the unpacking. Jane Oh, Mum. Why do we have to unpack? Dad Your mum's right. We have to take out all the swimming things and put in a few sweaters. Come on, kids, it's a long way to the coast. (They start unpacking.) Jane What about my sweater? Will I need it?  Mum Yes, of course. And the raincoat too. (15 minutes later.) Dad Right. Have we got everything? And Jamie!!! Turn off the TV! Jamie But Dad … Dad Turn it off!Jamie Look, the weatherman is on again. Mum Let's hear what he's got to say. (Jamie turns up the volume.) Weatherman ... have to apologise. I'm very sorry, but I gave you last week's weather report. I'm very sorry. Now here's the correct weather report for the next few days. Sunshine wherever we look, with temperatures going up to 25 to 30° Celsius. Some light cloud in the evenings, but there's nothing to worry about. Dad OK! Let's start again! The family are packing for a holiday. T / F 2 Dad thinks Jane doesn't need a sweater. T / F 3 The family are leaving tomorrow. T / F 4 Mum asks Jamie to D help pack. D turn down the TV. D watch the weather forecast. 5 The family are going to the D mountains. D seaside. D countryside. 6 After the first weather report, Jane asks if she needs to take D a bathing suit. Dan umbrella. D a sweater. 7 Why doesn't Jamie want to turn off the TV? 8 Why does Jamie turn up the volume? 9 What mistake did the weatherman make?

The hottest place in the USA. Death Valley is generally sunny, dry and clear throughout the year. While winters are mild, but summers are very hot and dry. In fact, Death Valley is one of the hottest places on earth. The highest temperature ever recorded in the USA was 134 F on July 10, 1913. Summer high temperatures are usually around 120 F. The average rainfall each year is two inches. Death Valley has the lowest point in the western world - 282 feet below sea level near Badwater as well as many high mountains such as Telescope Peak at over 11 000 feet. The wettest place in England. The wettest place in ENgland is in the Lake district. It is a small village called Seatoller. Seatoller is the starting point for some great walks. But bring good clothes against the rain. The average rainfall each year is 120 inches. Some people say there is even more rainfall in Seathwaite (one mile away): 130 inches. Seatoller doesn't have more rainy days than other places - but when it rains, it rains more.

Hi Tony, I'm sitting at the computer in the hotel lobby - guess why? No swimming, no lying in the sun. Outside it's raining, raining, raining. It all started with a thunderstorm yesterday. Then it got colder and then the heavy rain came. No tan* when I come back! ® And the outlook? More rain How boring. Hope I can catch a movie in town. How are Things with you? Alright? Write back. Maybe we can chat a bit. Love, Carina





