Play Football, Play Tennis, Play Basketball, Play Volleyball, go mountain climbing, go Cycling, go mountain Biking, go roller-Skating, go ice Skating, go skateboarding, go Swimming, go snowboarding, go Surfing, go Windsurfing, go skiing, go running.

Danni Interviewer When did you start surfing? Danni I started when I was about five, I think. We live near the beach in Santa Barbara so I grew up with the sea. Interviewer How often do you go surfing? Danni I go twice a day. In the morning before school and in the late afternoon after school. Interviewer Wow, you really like it. Danni I love it. This is 14-year-old Danni from California. Her favourite sport is surfing. She started surfing when she was four years old. She lives near the beach in Santa Barbara. She goes surfing once a day.

Ricky Interviewer How did you start mountain climbing? Ricky My dad’s a mountain climber. He loves it. One day when I was ten he invited me to go with him. I went and I loved it. I always go climbing with him. Interviewer How often do you go climbing? Ricky About three times a month. But in the holidays we go more often. Interviewer Where do you do most of your climbing? Ricky In the Rocky Mountains. We live about 10 miles away from the Rocky Mountains National Park. This is 14-year-old Ricky from Colorado. His favourite sport is mountain climbing. He started climbing when he was ten years old. He always goes climbing with his father.They go about four times a month. They usually go climbing in the Rocky Mountains. They live ten miles away from the Rocky Mountains National Park. 

Have you ever won any competitions? D 2 Have you ever got lost in the mountains? D 3 Have you ever seen a shark? D  Have you ever had an accident? D 5 Have you ever climbed the Matterhorn? D 6 Have you ever been to Australia? D Have you ever met a famous person? won a competition? appeared on television? found some money? lived in another country? been to a pop concert? fallen asleep in a lesson? written a poem? 

Danni Interviewer You spend a lot of time in the sea. Have you ever seen a shark? Danni  No, we don’t get too many sharks in Santa Barbara. But I have seen a lot of dolphins. Interviewer I s the surfing good in California? es, it’s not bad. Of course, it’s not as good as Hawaii or Australia. Interviewer Have you ever been to Australia? Danni Yes, I’ve been there twice. It’s great. I went there for a junior surfing competition. Interviewer Have you ever won any competitions? Danni Yes, I’ve won three. Interviewer Do you want to be professional one day? Danni Yes, when I finish school I’m going to be a professional surfer, definitely. Interviewer Well good luck. Danni Thank you.

Ricky Interviewer I s it a dangerous sport? Ricky No, not really. Of course every sport can be dangerous. But you have to train a lot. And you have to be careful. Then you make the sport  safer. Interviewer Have you ever had an accident? Ricky No. I’m always very, very careful and my dad always looks after me. So I’ve never had an accident. Interviewer Have you ever got lost in the mountains? Ricky No, my dad always knows where we are. Interviewer What’s the best mountain you’ve ever climbed. Ricky That’s a difficult question but I’ve climbed some wonderful mountains in the Austrian and Swiss Alps. Interviewer Have you ever climbed the Matterhorn? Ricky  No, I’m not that good yet. But one day I’d love to. It’s a great mountain.

The game. Eleven of us were on the field. The other team looked scared. "We're going to win," our trainer said. "We're really well prepared." Then Johnny kicked the ball to Paul and Paul kicked it to Sue, when Sue's mum shouted, "Come home, Sue, there's work for you to do." Ten of us were on the field and Helen tackled Eddie. Then Mr Sutton arrived and said, ''Triplets, your dinner's ready." Seven of us were on the field. The other team then scored. And Tom and Helen said, "We're off, we're getting really bored." Five of us were on the field, when Roland hurt his knee. He left. And Lisa went with him. And then we were only three. Three of us were on the field. The score was twenty - nil. "I've had enough. It's a waste of time." And off the field went Phil. Two of us were on the field and we tried our very best. But then Johnny turned to me and said, "I'm off, I need a rest." So there I was all on my own, a goalie without a team. Then Dad called out, "Wake up! You're late." Thank God - it was just a dream. 

Extreme sports profile. Action Woman. Who is she? Emma Sanderson, from England. What does she do? She's a yachtswoman. Tell me more.  She sails a yacht, in team races or alone. What competitions has she won? She wont the Round Britain and Ireland Race in 2000 at the age of 25 and also the Europe 1 New Man Star from Plymouth to Rhode Island, USA. What is she most famous for? She won the Around Alone race in 2002/03. She was the youngest woman and first British person to complete the 29,000 mile solo around-the-world yacht race. She was at sea for over 135 days. She had to face a hurricane, pirates and the extreme weather of the Southern Ocean - and, of course, she was alone at sea for four and a half months. What does she say about her sport? "I love the challenge. I don't really like being alone for a long time - I'm a people person. But I really wanted to be in the Around Alone race. I'm also in a global education programme and now I can tell kids about my sailing. I really enjoy that." Emma Sanderson is an ENglish yachtswoman. She sails in team races or alone. She won many team races, but she's really famous for the Around Alone race. She was the youngest woman to complete the 29,000 mile solo race. Now she enjoys telling kids about her sailing.

Sports profile: Tommy Caldwell, Master of Rock. Who is he? Tommy Caldwell (born August 11th, 1978 in Estes Park, Colorado) is an American rock climber. What does he do? traditional climbing, big wall speed-climbing, big wall free climbing. What is a big wall? A big wall is a huge cliff usually around 300 metres high. But there are some much higher ones, such as El Capitan or Dawn Wall in Yosemite National Park. They are 900 metres. Climbers often go up in pairs; sometimes it takes a few days to get to the top. So what has he already climbed? He has already climbed walls like The Nose several times. He climbed it with his former wife in four days. He has also speed-climbed it in less than twelve hours. For many years his greatest challenge was to climb the Dawn Wall of the El Capitan Mountain in Yosemite National Park in California. In January 2015, after several attempts, he finally managed to get to the top. How important is climbing for him? Very important, of course. He likes the adventure and the thrill. But he also likes the fact that it has given him a chance to travel and to see the world. He has already been to so many beautiful places and he thinks he's living a full and exciting life. Climbing has also taught him to live without fear. What does he think about his sport? He loves it. He enjoys pushing himself, and he enjoys the freedom. He thinks life doesn't get any better than this. But he also sees the dangers. One danger is to become too obsessed and forget your friends and family. He says: "I've learned that I love climbing, but I love people more." What are his Goals for the future? To be a good husband and a good dad and to share his love of climbing with others all over the world. Tommy Caldwell is from Colorado. 2 His sports are traditional climbing, big wall speed-climbing, big wall free climbing. 3 Caldwell has already climbed the Nose, the Dawn Wall of the EL Capitan Mountain. 4 He doesn't only like the adventure of climbing, but also travelling. 5 He loves climbing, but he says it's more important to love people more. 6 One goal for his future is to be a good husband and dad.

football rugby tennis cricket golf swimming 
Lucy So we're having a sports party for our birthday this year. Leo Yeah. Football and tennis. It's going to be cool. Lucy Why don't I write the invitations? Leo That's great. And I'll organise the equipment. Fantastic. What else do we need to do? Leo Well, Mum has already booked the sports centre. Lucy What about food? Can you make a list of the food? Leo Sure, no problem. And could you organise the drinks?  Lucy Of course. Leo Football, tennis, food and drink. This is going to be the best party ever. Lucy I just hope the weather's good. Leo Don't be so silly. I checked the  forecast. It's going to be sunny all day. 

Decide what kind of party to have. 2 Write the invitations. 3 Organise the equipment. 4 Hire the sports centre. 5 Make a list of food and drink. 6 Check the weather forecast.




