play with your pet, clean out your pet's Cage, brush your pet, feed your pet D dry your pet stroke your pet, walk your pet, give your pet a bath, take your pet to the vet, clean out the litter tray

Have you got a pet? Megan Yes, I’ve got a cat, Princess. Interviewer What colour is she? Megan Black and white. She’s got white feet. Interviewer Where does your cat sleep? Has she got her own basket? Megan She has, but she likes sleeping on the sofa in the living room. Interviewer How often do you feed her? Megan Twice a day. In the morning and in the evening. Interviewer Do you often play with her? Megan No, I don’t. But when I do my homework she sits on the desk and I stroke her a lot. I s she a lot of work for you? Megan No, she isn’t. I just have to clean out her litter tray. I don’t like it, but I have to do it. Interviewer How much time do you spend on your cat? Megan Well, that’s difficult to say, but it’s not more than 15 minutes a day. Interviewer Megan, thanks for talking to me. Megan You’re welcome. Interviewer David, have you got a pet? David Yes, I’ve got a dog. A boxer. His name’s Buddy. Interviewer What colour is he? David Brown. All boxers are brown. Interviewer Yes, of course. How often do you feed Buddy? David Once a day. But my sister often gives him some extra food. Interviewer I s he a lot of work for you? David Sometimes he is. I walk him twice every day. And when it rains, I have to clean him and dry him, and I have to clean the floor. And sometimes I have to give him a bath. So it’s quite a lot of work. Interviewer And nobody in your family helps you? David Well, my parents didn’t want a dog. They said, “You can have a dog, but you have to do all the work.” Interviewer How much time do you spend on your dog? David Well, about one and a half hours a day, I think. Interviewer Does you sister help you? David No, she doesn’t. She’s got a guinea pig and she looks after that. Interviewer Where does Buddy sleep? David In his basket in the hall. Interviewer Do you play with Buddy a lot. Yes, when I walk him in the park. Interviewer Thanks for the interview, David. David That’s alright. What is Megan's et? a cat a hamster or a dog. What Colour is she? black and White, black and Grey, black Grey and Brown. Where does she Sleep? in Megan's room, in the bathroom, in the Living room. How often does she feed her? How much time a day does she spend on her? What is David's pet? What Colour is he? How often does she feed him? How much time a day does he spend on him? Where does he Sleep?

A new pet. Do you know what this house needs, Alice? Alice What does it need, Bob? Bob A pet. This house needs a pet. A pet to keep us company. Alice That's a great idea. Let's get one.  "The Animal Shelter". I think we're going to find something in here. Bob So do I. Something very special to make our house the perfect home.  e How about a dog? They've got some lovely dogs here. Bob Hmm, I'm not too sure. Think of the mess they make and the noise. Then we need to take them for walks … Alice Yes, that's a good point. Let's look at the cats. Cats. They're cleaner than dogs, but they're not very good company. I don't really like cats. Alice Neither do I. Let's forget About cats and look for something else. Bob let's go to the pet shop. "The Perfect Pet". The best pet shop in town. What are these? Alice Rats! No way. I've got a fear of rats. Bob So have I. There's no way I want a rat in the house.  What about a budgie? They're easy to look after and they're great company. Bob No. I don't really like the idea of birds in cages. Birds need to fly. b Snakes. Hmm. Interesting. They're easy to look after, for sure. And they'll keep the house safe. Nobody's going to break into a house with a snake like this in it. t's going to need a big glass cage, but we've got lots of space in the living room. No way! I'm scared of snakes. So what are we going to get, Alice? Alice Come with me. I think I've got the perfect pet for us.  A goldfish. Perfect. Alice Isn't it beautiful? I haven't thought of a name for it yet. Neither have I. But we've got all day to think of one. Why does Bob say they need a pet? 2 Why doesn't Bob want a dog? 4 Why don't Bob and Alice want a rat? 5 Why doesn't Bob want a bird? 3 Why don't Bob and Alice want a cat? 6 Why does Bob think a snake might be a good idea? 

Getting a pet. We've got to get a pet, something for our home. We've got to get a pet. Don't want to be alone. Shall we get a cat? Or shall we get a dog? Shall we get a snake? Or shall we get a frog? hm … A dog is too much work. A cat is much too proud. A snake's too dangerous. A frog Is much too loud. We've got to get a pet, something for our home. We've got to get a pet. Don't want to be alone. Shall we get a bird? Or shall we get a rat? Or shall we get a goldfish, dear?What do you say to that? hm … Bird in a cage? No way! I've got a fear of rats. I'd really love a goldfish, dear. So would the neighbours' cats.

The story of Happy Feet. In June 2011, some people found an emperor penguin on a beach in New Zealand. It was really unusual because there are no emperor penguins in New Zealand. The penguin was more than 2,500 kilometres from home! Penguins are excellent swimmers, but that's a very long way to swim, even for a penguin. The people saw that the penguin ate sand. They also saw that the bird was quite sick. Why did he eat sand? Because the poor bird thought it was snow. They took the penguin to the zoo in Wellington, the capital of New Zealand. They called the emperor penguin "Happy Feet". Happy Feet soon became a star. Lots of people wanted to see him. At the zoo they fed Happy Feet fish and after some months Happy Feet was fine again. They decided to take him back home. They fixed a transmitter* to the bird and put him on a ship. They took him about 600 km south. Then they said goodbye to him and put him in the sea to swim home. But what happened to Happy Feet? After five days there was no signal from the Transmitter any more. Did he get home? Did a shark eat him? We will never know. Did you know? The emperor penguin is the tallest and heaviest of all penguins. They can be 120 cm tall and weigh up to 45 kilos. They eat fish and other small animals that live in the Arctic Sea. The penguin wasn't a very long way from home. T / F 2 Penguins often swim more than 2,500 km. T / F 3 The penguin was trying to eat sand. T / F 4 The penguin was quite sick because he ate sand. 5 The penguin stayed in the zoo for a while. 6 Before they let Happy Feet go, they fixeda  transmitter on him. 7 Where did they release Happy Feet? 600 km south of New Zealand. What happened to Happy Feet? They don't know How are emperor penguins different from other penguins? they are taller and heavier

How unusual. There are no emperor penguins in New Zealand. Man 1 What’s an emperor penguin doing in New Zealand? Woman 2 It looks a bit sick. Man 1 It’s 2,500 kilometres from home! Woman 1  Look, it’s trying to eat sand! Woman 2  Can somebody phone for help? Narrator  The next day. Interviewer Professor, why do we suddenly have an emperor penguin in New Zealand? Professor  I t’s a mystery, really. It normally lives in the Antarctic. We don’t know how it got here. Interviewer Maybe it swam all the way. Professor  Well, penguins are good swimmers, but it’s a long way, even for a penguin. Interviewer One last question. Why was it eating sand? Professor  The poor bird thought it was snow, I think. Narrator At the zoo in Wellington. Girl  Is that the famous penguin, Dad? Dad  Yes, dear. They call him Happy Feet. Look –he’s eating a lot of fish right now. Some months later on a ship 600 kilometres south of New Zealand. Woman 3  I s the transmitter working? We want to find him again. Man 2 Yes, it is. Happy Feet should be OK now. Let’s put him into the water. Narrator  Half a year later. Interviewer Did you ever find out what happened to Happy Feet? Professor Sorry, no. We lost the signal after five days. We don’t know – did a shark eat him? Did he get home? Let’s hope he got home.

I haven't got a pet. We live in a flat and my parents always say no. I'd like a dog. My parents say dogs are a lot of work, but I don't think so. One of my friends has got a dog. He doesn't spend a lot of time on it. We sometimes play with it in the park.

My pet is a rat and his name is Fluff. I often play with Fluff. He likes it when I put him inside my shirt. Some of my friends are scared of Fluff. When I take Fluff out of my shirt or jacket, they run away. I don't understand that. I clean the cage every second day and I put in clean water twice every day. At night, Fluff sleeps in his cage. When I get up at the weekend, I put him in the pocket of my pyjamas. Then I go into the kitchen and hug my mum. When she feels Fluff, she screams.








