Sunday. Fantastic. Great. Wonderful. Finally - it's here! THe last week of school for six week. Six weeks of holiday! Oh, what a happy week! Things to do for my Holidays: Paint my bedroom black. Do karate lessons. Beat my dad at chess. Read all the Percy Jackson books - again! Get fit! Build a new go-kart with Sam (my best friend this week). Spend time with Jenny - this might be difficult because I've never spoken to her in my life. I'll definitely need a plan for this. Monday. School was a bit boring. I got my test results. 'C' for everything. 'C' isn't so bad. It's better than 'D'. I explained this to Dad. He didn't really understand. I don't think he's very happy at the moment. I think he has got problems at work. I forgot to ask Jenny for her phone number. I must do this tomorrow. Four days to go! Tuesday. I had a big argument with my dad at breakfast today. He says I can't paint my bedroom black. It has got to be blue. Blue! My dad doesn't understand teenagers. I'm not going to speak to him for a week. School was better. We played games all day. I think our teachers are very tired. There was one bad thing. Sam had some news for me - Jenny is going to live in London. She's not going to be at our school next term. "What?" I screamed. Them Sam said it was a joke. I think I need a new best friend. Wednesday. Another bad breakfast. I asked my dad for 10 pounds to buy some wood for my go-kart. Dad said "Have you forgotten? You're not speaking to me." He's so smart. So I asked Mum because I'm still speaking to her. She said "Ask your dad." Parents are complicated. It was Sports Day at school today. I was in the 2,000 metres - five times around the running track! I got a new school record - the slowest time in the history of Sports Day. It was the last race of the day. When I finished, nobody was there. That was a shame because I wanted to ask Jenny for her phone number. I must do this tomorrow. Thursday. I got up half an hour late today because I didn't want to see Dad at breakfast. The plan worked. I didn't see him. The only problem was I was half an hour late for school. My teacher wasn't happy. We had the school play this afternoon. I don't really remember what the story was about. But Jenny was in it. She was great. After the play everybody wanted to talk to her. I couldn't ask her for her phone number. There were too many people. I'm going to be in the school play next year. Friday. Today we had the final assembly with Mr Hill, the headmaster. He read out all the names of the best students. The best students at Maths, the best students at Science, at Sport, at French, etc. Then he shouted out my name - not because I'm best at anything (unfortunately), but because I was talking to my friend. Everyone looked at me. Jenny looked at me. I think she smiled. I went red. I didn't ask Jenny for her phone number, but I've got a new plan. I'm going to talk to Jenny next term. I'll be thirteen then. I read in a book that talking to girls is easier when you're  thirteen! But I wrote a holiday song for her and uploaded it on the internet. I hope Jenny likes it.