Where did you go?

Hey, hey, hey! Where did you go for your holiday? Did you go to Paris? And did you go to Rome? Did you go to Lisbon? Or did you stay at home? I didn't go away on a holiday. I was glad to stay at home. Were you on a cruise ship? Were you at a spa? Were you in the jungle? Did you travel far? I didn't go away on a holiday. I was glad to stay at home. Did you see the North Pole? Did you see Madrid? Did you go Down Under? Tell me what you did. I didn't go away on a holiday. I was glad to stay at home. Yeah, I was glad to stay at home.

My name's Jacob. I live in Queenstown on the South Island of New Zealand. I usually wake up at 7 .30. I wash , get dressed and have breakfast with my mum and dad. At ten past eight, my mum drives me to school. I play with my friends there. School starts at 8.45. I really like school. My teacher takes us on a lot of trips - I like that best. School ends at 4 o'clock. Then I usually go to rugby practice with my friends. I get home at 6 o'clock. Then I go for a quick wa lk with my dog. At 8 o'clock, we have dinner. After dinner, I watch TV or read a bit. I usually go to bed at 9.30.  My name's Abeeku and I go to school in a village 200 kilometres from Accra in Ghana. I usually wake up early in the morning, around 4 a.m., so I can study a bit and do my household chores*. People here get up early because it is better to do your chores when it is not so hot. First, I say my morning prayers. Then I sweep the house, wash  make breakfast and put on my school uniform. I always get to school around 6.30 a.m. As soon as I get to school, I sweep my classroom – this is what I and my friends do every day. At 7 a.m., we all meet in assembly, where we usually hear some important information. Our first lesson starts at 7 .30 a.m., and lasts for 80 minutes. Every day, we have five lessons . We have a break at 10. 10 a.m. and we start again at 10.40 a.m. The older kids have more lessons, of course. But when we finish, I don't go home right away. I stay for private classes with one of our teachers. I get home at about 3.30 p.m. I have my lunch, then go for water for the house. After that, I help my mum to prepare food for our supper. I do my homework after supper. I usually go to bed at 10 p.m. He Wakes up at... He goes to School at... His lessons start at... he gets home at... he goes to bed at...


My name’s Abeeku and I go to school in a village 200 kilometres from Accra in Ghana. I usually wake up early in the morning, around 4 a.m., so I can study a bit and do my household chores*. People here get up early because it is better to do your chores when it is not so hot. First, I say my morning prayers. Then I sweep the house, wash, make breakfast and put on my school uniform. I always get to school around 6.30 a.m. As soon as I get to school, I sweep my classroom – this  is what I and my friends do every day. At 7 a.m., we all meet in assembly, where we usually hear some important information. Our first lesson starts at 7.30 a.m., and lasts for 80 minutes. Every day, we have five lessons. We have a break at 10.10 a.m. and we start again at 10.40 a.m. The older kids have more lessons, of course. But when we finish, I don’t go home right away.  I stay for private classes with one of our teachers. I get home at about 3.30 p.m. I have my lunch, then go for water for the house. After that, I help my mum to prepare food for our supper. I do my homework after supper. I usually go to bed at 10 p.m. 

Design and  7 Science Technology  8  Information 2 English Technology – IT 3  French  9  Geography  4  Maths  10  History  5  Art  11  Physical  6 Music Education

On Mondays I’ve got English and French in the morning and then Design and Technology after the break. Then in the afternoon, I’ve got Maths, Art and Music. It’s not a bad day.Tuesday morning is really boring, Maths, then English, then Geography! After lunch I’ve got Science, French and History. It’s not so bad.I love Wednesdays. Science and history before break and then Maths after break. After lunch it’s PE all afternoon. Great.Thursday is OK. I’ve got French and Science and Design and Technology in the morning. In the afternoon it’s English, Art and Music.Friday’s the best day, of course – because it’s the beginning of the weekend. I start with Science and IT and then we have History after the break. In the afternoon it’s Maths, English and Geography and then the Weekend.

First day at School. It was the first day of the new school year. All the kids were really excited. There were a lot of holiday stories to tell. Everyone wanted to talk. The new teacher, Miss Cross, asked everyone to sit down and listen. "OK," she said. "Who wants to tell me about their holidays?" Twenty arms went up in the air. "Let's start with Sara," said Miss Cross. We didn't hear any other stories in that lesson. Sara's family always go somewhere exciting for their holidays. This year was the same. "My family- that's me, my mum, my dad and my five-year-old brother Michael - went to Australia," she said. "We went to North Queensland. It was really beautiful and we had a great time swimming in the sea and playing on the beach." "Boring!" said Andrew Wilson. "Sh !" said Miss Cross. Sara went on. "One day, my brother was near the sea on his own. When he came back, he had a beautiful shell in his hand. He showed it to us." "So what?" said Andrew Wilson. Well, I saved my brother’s life.” “I don’t believe you,” said one boy. “How?” shouted another. “My brother looked in the shell. He told us there was a strange blue and yellow thing inside. He started to put his fingers inside. He wanted to pull it out. Then I remembered about the blue-ringed octopus.” “The what?” Andrew Wilson asked. “The blue-ringed octopus – I read about it before we went. It lives in the sea, near Australia and Japan. It’s small, but it’s really poisonous. It can kill you with one bite. I hit my brother’s hand and the shell fell onto the sand. Then we saw a small blue and yellow octopus come out of the shell. Of course, we didn’t touch it.” “We don’t believe you,” said lots of the students. “There’s no octopus that’s so dangerous,” said Andrew Wilson. “There’s one way to find  out,” said Miss Cross.  “Let’s check on the  internet! t’s the last day of the school year. T / F 2 The children were excited. T / F 3 Not many children wanted to tell their holiday stories. How many people are there in Sara’s family?     3      4      5 5 Where did Sara’s brother find the shell?  in the sea     on the beach     behind some rocks 6 What did Sara remember about the octopus?  it’s only from Australia     it’s not very big, it lives in Shells. How can a blue-ringed octopus kill a person?
8 How did Sara save her brother's life?
9 Why does Miss Cross tell them to go onto the internet?


The blue-ringed octopus is very dangerous. It lives in the sea from Japan down to Australia. It lives for about two and a half years. The blue-ringed octopus has blue rings on its Body and on its eight arms. It's about the size of a golf ball. It's dark yellow, but when you attack it, it turns bright yellow. The rings turn bright blue. The blue-ringed octopus hunts during the day. It eats fish. It bites the fish and kills them with its poison. The blue-ringed octopus also uses the poison to kill attackers. The poison is so strong and dangerous that it can kill a person. There is
no medicine against the poison. Where does the blue-ringed octopus live? It lives in the sea from Japan down to Australia. How Long does it live? It lives for About two and a half years. How many arms has it got? it has got 8 arms. What Colour is it? It's dark yellow, but when you attack it, it turns bright yellow. THe rings turn bright blue. When does it hunt? It hunts during the day. What does it eat? It eats fish.


The furious octopus
The octopus, the octopus is sometimes very furious. .., You shake his first arm and you see some octo-ink right on your knee. You shake the others - two to eight - and suddenly it's much too late to get away. The octopus, the octopus is getting really furious. He covers you in ink so black. It's on your head and legs and back. And then he hugs you really tight. Believe me, this is quite a sight: It's furious, so furious.


Hi, This year my family stayed at home. I got up late every day. In the mornings, I usually watched TV. After lunch, I played volleyball or went swimming. In the evenings, I played on my computer.  I sometimes went to the cinema. It was the perfect holiday.  Bye, Tricia 




