School life in the USA. The school System. Hi, my name's Susannah and I'm American. There are five types of schools in America: public schools, charter schools, private schools, religious schools and home schooling. I go to a charter school. Charter schools are run by a private organization and you don't pay. There are over 6,100 of these schools in America now. Home schooling. Hello, my name is Mark and I have home schooling. It's fantastic! I do all my lessons at home on the computer. I don't have to wear a uniform and I don't have to catch the school bus. And of course I don't have homework after school! The high school prom. Did you know? In American schools, there is a junior and a senior prom. The senior prom is at the end of the last year of high school. Traditionally, boys wear suits and ties and girls wear ball gowns. The girl's date for the evening gives her flowers to wear. Hi, my name’s Amy and I want to tell you about my high school prom. It was a nightmare! I had a beautiful cream dress. I bought it months before the prom. The best-looking boy in the class asked me to the prom and everything was perfect. On the day of the prom, I got dressed. The limo came and took me to my date’s house. I got out of the limo and stood and talked to his parents. Then I saw a friend. I walked across the grass and onto her driveway. Disaster! The tar on the driveway was new. I fell on my backside. Then I tried to get up and I fell on my face. My $340 dress, $75 shoes, and $120 day at the hairdresser’s were a black, smelly mess. It took my mom six hours to get the tar out of my blonde hair with gasoline. What did Amy wear to the prom? 2 Who asked her to the prom? 3 How did she travel to her date's house? 4 Was the tar* on the driveway* dry? 5 How much did her shoes cost? 6 How long did it take her mother to get the tar out of her hair? 

baseball; 2 a, baseball; 3 a, five players; 4 c, more than three hours; 5 b, a diamond; 6 b, baseball; 7 b, six Points

Popular American Sports. Which sport is the oldest? a) American Football b) Basketball c) Baseball 2 Which sport are these terms from: a pitcher, a home run and a pennant? a) baseball b) football c) rounders 3 There are ... players in a basketball team. a) 5 b) 6 c) 7 4 How long does a baseball match usually last? What is a baseball field called? a) a star b) a diamond c) a square 6 The Cincinnati Red Stockings were the first professional ... team. a) Basketball b) Baseball c) American Football 7 How many points do you score for a 'touchdown' in American football? 

Swimming is my favorite sport. I learnt to swim when I was five years old. My parents and my two Brothers also like swimming. We have a cabin at a lake in Wisconsin and in summer we spend three weeks there. We swim before breakfast and in the afternoon. I also love swimming in the lake when there is a full moon. I love swimming because it is good for my body. And there is another thing: when I swim slowly in our lake, good ideas often come to my mind. My favorite sport is badminton. I love badminton because it is good exercise and a lot of my best friends play. I also love to watch badminton matches on TV. Unfortunately, the US have not won any medals in badminton at the Olympic Games. We have a school team that Plays against other schools, but I'm not on it. I train hard so maybe I will be on the team next year. 

Last week, we went on a school trip to the Redwood National Park in California. Giant evergreen trees grow in the park. Some of these trees grow up to 105 metres. I couldn’t see the top and I certainly couldn’t climb them. They take 400 years to grow and some of them are more than 2,000 years old. The Redwoods were the home of the American Indians. They still live in reservations in the Redwood region. I wanted to visit a reservation but we didn’t have time. The Colorado Rockies. lhe Rocky Mountains were the home of the Apache, Blackfoot and Sioux, and stretch from* Alaska to New Mexico. The Rockies are high! There are 107 mountains in the range* which are over 3,000  meters. The Colorado Rockies are the tallest. People call them the roof of America' because the tops of the mountains here than 4 000 meters. The Colorado Rockies are a are a popular area to go mountain climbing, fishing, Hunting and skiing. Yellowstone National Park. This park is in Wyoming and is older than the other national parks in America. It is famous for its hot springs* and for its grizzly bears. Some of the bears are huge. They can weigh 700 kg. There are also wolves and bison in the park. The park is 8,980 square km. Before human history, a huge volcanic eruption* covered* the area with ash*. Yellowstone is the name of a volcano too and it usually erupts every 600,000 years. The last eruption was 640,000 years ago! Did you know? THe first national park in the USA was Yellowstone Park. It opened in 1872 and was the first national park in the world.

Extreme Weather. Hurricane: The Facts. Hurricanes come from the sea. THey travel at 119 km per hour. They can be from 100 to 1,600 km wide. Hurricanes are given girls' and boys' names, for example Hurricane Andrew. Tornadoes: the Facts. There are about 800 to 1,200 tornadoes a year in America. They are usually in Northwest Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas. They circle around at speeds of 320 to 800 km per hour. THey are a dark grey colour because they pick up soil and other objects. Mary Ann's Story. In 2005, Hurricane Katrina hit my three storey block of flats near Hallandale Beach in Florida. First, the sea hit the building and all the windows broke. Then the room filled with water. Five minutes later, my bed was up by the ceiling. Then it went out of the window. It was dark and the wind was making a really loud noise. I was terrified. The building was falling down* all around me. The wind was awful. It reached a speed* of more than 300 km per hour. I was cut and bleeding* from head to toe. Finally, someone found me 8 km from my house and they took me to hospital. When did Hurricane Katrina hit Florida? 2 What happened after the rooms were filled with water? 3 What happened to the building? 4 How fast was the wind? 5 How far did the water carry Mary Ann?
THe Storm Chasers! Most people run away or hide from hurricanes and tornadoes but some people in America chase them! You can even go on a storm-chasing holiday! The storm-chasing tours are not safe. There is a good chance you will see a tornado. The tornadoes are always far from the hotel. You can't take photos of the tornadoes. If there aren't any tornadoes, they go sightseeing.




