How embarrassing!

The party that wasn't a surprise
At the end of the last school year my friends and I wanted to organise a surprise party for Mr Harris, our English teacher. He had a job at a new school. So we wanted to say thank you and goodbye. We made a big cake and we bought a big box of chocolates too. Two days before the party I wrote an email to the kids from my class. I said, "Don't forget! The party for Mr Harr is is a SURPRISE! So don't tell him!" Then I pressed SEND. The next day at school my friends told me about my mistake. I had sent* the email to them and I had sent it to Mr Harris, too!

What did Alan's class plan for their teacher?
What did they want to give him?
What did Alan write in his email?
What mistake did he make?
He sent the email to Mr Harris, too.A big box of chocolates, and a cake.He made a mistake.He wrote, “Don’t tell Mr Harris about the party!”They planned a surprise Party

Mum's mistake
A few months ago my best friend Karen's dad needed to go hospital for an operation. She was really worried. When I told my mum about the operation, she asked me for Karen's email address. She wanted to send her a message to wish the family luck . The next time I saw Karen, she wasn't very happy. "I'm a bit upset with your mum's message," she said. I was really confused, but then she showed me the message. "Dear Karen I hope the operation is a success. We are all thinking of you. LOL Mrs Seeton." When I got home, I asked Mum, "Why did you write LOL in your message to Karen?" "Because I wanted to send her lots of love." "Mum," I explained, "LOL doesn't mean 'lots of love', it means 'laugh out loud'." My mum was so embarrassed and phoned Karen immediately to say sorry. Luckily the operation was a success. Now we can all laugh at my mum's embarrassing mistake.

Who is Karen? Why did Sophie's mum want to write to Karen? Why was Sophie confused? What three words did Sophie's mum want to write?
Mrs Smith had a new job in a shop. T / F
2 The director went to check on Mrs Smith's work. T / F
3 The floor was still dirty. T / F
4 Part of the modern sculpture was missing. T / F
5 The jacket with five roses was missing. T / F
6 The jacket with the roses was part of a sculpture. T / F

Mrs Caroline Smith began to work as a cleaning lady in a Museum of Modern Art somewhere in England. The director told her to start cleaning in a room on the first floor. Two hours later, rs Smith came back and asked what to do next. The director went upstairs to check on her work. He came back with a look of horror on his face. Mrs Smith had done her job too well! The director found that the floor and the windows were clean. But he also saw that part of a modern sculpture was missing. The sculpture was an old jacket over a computer screen. On the jacket there were two roses. But the jacket and the roses were missing. “Where’s the jacket with the roses? ” the director asked Mrs Smith. “Oh, that old thing! ” she answered. “I threw it away! And the roses too! ” The sculpture was worth 50. Mrs Smith had a new job in a shop.  T / F 2  The director went to check on Mrs Smith’s work.  T / F  3  The floor was still dirty.  T / F 4  Part of the modern sculpture was missing.  T / F 5  The jacket with five roses was missing.  T / F 6  The jacket with the roses was part of a sculpture.

What an old jacket!
2 Oh no! I didn't take his address out.
3 I can't believe that she wrote that.
4 What's the matter, you look upset?
5 There's something missing here.
6 Oh no! I must phone her immediately.


Richard Dad?
Dad What is it?
Richard Can I have another T-shirt?
Dad Why? What's wrong with the
blue one?
Richard Nothing, but I want my extra
large one. The one that has
got an alien on it.
Dad Sorry, I can't give you
that one.
Richard Why not?
Dad I put it in the washing
machine. And now
it's extra small.
Richard Oh, Dad!

Why and why and why!
Why is it always why?
Why not ask me when ,
or where or what or who?
It's something you could do.

Online Do's and Don'ts
Why was 14-year-old Jacob so upset when he opened the door of his house? Because there were about a hundred young people in the garden for his birthday party. Some of them he knew. Most of them he didn't know. Why were they there? Because Jacob posted his invitation on Facebook. But why did so many people turn up? Because Jacob didn't check who could see his postings. So not only his real friends turned up, but also friends of his friends. Jacob was lucky because one of his  neighbours called the police and the people went away. The garden was a mess, but the house was fine. Jacob made a terrible mistake. Jacob is not the only one to make such a mistake. There are lots of stories about something going wrong because of wrong behaviour on the web. So here are some important 
tips for when you go online:
• Think before you post something and check who can see it.
• Think about what you write or what sort of pictures you send. You never know how many people can read your text or look at the picture. Your best friend could send it on to his or her best friend and so on. Do you really want that?
• Don't give your passwords to anyone. And don't post your real name and home address online.
• When you hear something bad about someone, don't pass it on to other people. Maybe it's not true.
• When someone bullies you online, talk to an adult.

Why were there lots of people in Jacon's garden? because he posted his invitation on Facebook. 
2 Why was Jacob upset?  D Because lots of people turned up for
his birthday.
3 Why was Jacob lucky? Because a neighbour called the police.
4 Why is it a good idea to check who can see your postings? because you don't want everyone to know your plans.
5 Why is it not a good idea to give your password to other people? Because you don't want other People to use it.
6 Why is it a good idea to talk to an adult? D Because they can help when
someone bullies you.


Do you like Science?
B Yes, I do.
A Why do you like it?
B Because it's exciting.
A Do you like Science?
B No, I don't.
A Why not?
B Because it isn't interesting.

Why were the people there? - Because Jacob posted his invitation on Facebook.
But why did so many people turn up? - Because Jacob didn't check who could see his postings.

send a text message
to the wrong person
D break someone's camera
D eat someone's chocolate
D lose someone's pen
Leo Lucy, I'm really sorry. I made a terrible mistake. Lucy What did you do? Leo Well, you told me to invite Emily Clarke ... for the bike tour.
Lucy And? Leo I wanted to text her, but I sent the message to Emily White.
Lucy What? You know I don't really like her. She's a bit boring. Leo I know. I feel really bad about it. Lucy You fool. She's so boring. Leo I'm sorry. It was a mistake. I know. Lucy But how could you do that? Leo Hang on a minute. Here's her answer: Great idea. Thanks. See you both near the old castle at two. Say hi to Lucy. Lucy Oh, no!



