He’s wearing a ghost costume. 2  She’s wearing a witch’s costume. 3  It’s a pumpkin. 4  It’s a haunted house. 5 They’re playing apple bobbing. 6 He’s a vampire.

When they come after you We are brave, we are strong. Here's our Halloween song: We aren't scared of witches. We smile at every ghost. We do not fear the zombies. In fact, we love them most. But  what will you do when they come after you? We are brave, we are strong. Here's our Halloween song: We say hello to pirates and wizards are our friends. We do not fear the vampires that fly until night ends. But what will you do when they come after you? We are brave, we are strong. Here's our Halloween song: We love the Halloween monsters. We think they are alright. It's all a great big party. A party for a night. 

The question was: Do you have any Halloween traditions or fun things to do? Your answers were: George, USA, aged 11. My mum gets a scary film from the DVD shop. We change the house into a hunted castle and then we invite friends for a Halloween party. My brother and I have got a CD of scary noises, and when our friends walk up the stairs in the dark, we play it. After a tour of the house we eat popcorn and watch the film. Megan, Ireland, aged 14. We always have a party. Everyone wears a mask. We're vampires, witches, and ghosts. And we also play apple bobbing. There are lots of apples in a bowl of water and you try to take them out with your mouth. You can't use your hands. It's difficult, but fun. I often win the game because I'm a vampire. And with my vampire teeth it's easy to get the apple. Steve, UK, aged 12. Me and my brothers usually go out on Halloween. We knock on people's doors and say "Trick or treat". People sometimes
give us a treat: sweets, etc. But if they don't, we play a trick on them. Last year our neighbour Mr Eliot didn't give us a treat, so we put some vampire stickers on his front window. Henry, Canda, aged 11. Every year we take a pumpkin to school. We cut off the top and take out everything inside.  Then we cut a scary face in it. Finally, we put a candle inside the pumpkin.  This year my pumpkin face was the best. It was so scary that the teacher said: "Let's keep it for our Halloween party at school." I was very proud. Henry- Master of Horror!

That's really scary, well done! All we need now is a candle.
2 My clothes are really wet. I must get another T-shirt!
3 Wait for me before you start the film!
4 Can I borrow your knife, please?
5 Those pictures look really scary!
6 This is unfair. Your teeth are so long.
7 Wow, that's a lot of sweets.
8 What was that? Did you hear that? What an awful sound!

Trick or Treat
Last Halloween, I went trick-or-treating with my twin sister Kerry. "Larry and Kerry, don't go too far away," our mum said . But we didn't listen and soon we were on the other side of t own. There we met a boy about the same age as us . He told us his name was Jim. He said he wanted to go trick or treating with us. " There are some really good houses in this street," he told us. So we went with him. At the end of the street was a really big old house with a bi g gate and a long drive up to the front door. We stopped and looked at it . It was the kind of house you see in horror films. " Let's try this house," said Jim. "We shouldn't go in there," I said. "And you shouldn't be a baby," said Jim. "Come on." Jim walked up the long drive. We followed. An old man opened the door. He wasn't very happy to see us. "Trick or treat?" Jim asked. The old man looked at us. "Go away," he said. "Go away - now!" He closed the door. " Come on," I said. And we walked to the gate. At the gate Jim stopped. "That man was mean," he said. " We should play a mean trick on him." "OK," I said. "Let's make ghost noises. "No," said Jim. "We should play a really mean trick on him." "Let 's throw a stone at his window," said Kerry. "No," said Jim. " Let's put superglue in his door lock." " I think we should go home," I said. But it was too late.  Larry tells his mum where they are going. 2 The kids know Jim. 3 The big house is old. 4 Larry thought the house was like one from a scary movie. 5 Jim calls Larry a coward because he doesn't want to go into the house. 6 The old man tells the children to go away and then shuts the door. 7 Why does Jim want to play a trick on the old man? Because he was mean  What trick does Kerry want to play on the old man? They want to throw a rock at his window. 9 What trick does Jim want to play on the old man? He want to put superglue in his door lock. Jim walked up to the house. We watched from behind the garden wall. He arrived at the door and took the superglue out of his pocket. We saw him look at the lock. I was very scared.Suddenly the door opened. I don’t know what really happened next. It happened so fast. But the door closed again and Jim wasn’t there.I looked at Kerry and she looked at me. Kerry What should we do? Narrator Jim! Jim! There was no answer.An hour later we were at the gate of the house again. Our mum and dad were with us. There were also lots of police officers. They were in the garden and in the house. The chief inspector came to talk to me. Man So your friend just disappeared? That’s very strange. Narrator  Why? Man This house is empty. No one lives here. It’s been empty for twenty years.

You should wear a Halloween costume.
2 You shouldn't play really mean tricks on people.
3 You shouldn't wear black clothes at night.
4 You should take a bag with you for the sweets.
5 You should always go with friends .
6 You shouldn't stay out very late.
7 You shouldn't go on your own.
8 You should always tell an adult where you are going.

Hi there,
Mum says I can have a Halloween party © (and U R the first I'm inviting),
but I don't really know how to plan it. I have some ideas, but you're much
better at that than I am.
So can you send me a few ideas? Please.
CU

I'm not so keen on Halloween. I'm not so keen on Halloween. When my friends meet for trick or treat, I'm not the one who thinks it's fun to run around
as witch or ghost. I'm not so keen on Halloween. When my friends meet for  trick or treat, I'm not the one who thinks it's fun to run around as witch or ghost. We should go home - it's late. We shouldn't go in there - it's dangerous. What should I do?



