Saved by a pig
August 5th, 2004 was a hot day in Worcester. Judith Crowe, her 5-year-old son Jeff and their little pig Bacon went swimming in the river near their home. Bacon was a very good swimmer. In fact, he was better than Jeff. Judith and her son played and swam in the water for an hour. All the time Bacon was with them. Then Jeff's mother got out of the water to get a towel. "Stay here for a minute," she said. When she turned round, she saw Jeff in the middle of the river. The water was deeper and more dangerous there . He was in trouble. Jeff's mother jumped into the water and started to swim. But Bacon was faster than Judith and got to the boy first. The little boy put his arms around the pig. But he was bigger than the pig and he was heavier. The boy and the pig both disappeared under the water. with them. Jeff's mother didn't know what to do. Then suddenly she saw the little pig again. Jeff was on the pig's back. Her son was safe.

Judith is Jeff's mother. T / F
2 Bacon is Jeff's friend . T / F
3 They went swimming in a river. T / F
4 The river was near their house.
5 Bacon was a better swimmer than Jeff.
6 Judith left Jeff in the water to get a towel.
7 Where was Jeff when he got into trouble?
8 Who got to Jeff first?
9 Why did Jeff pull Bacon under the water?

small
strong
hairy
clever
heavy
big
dangerous


Animals of Atlantis
The Ruckle
The Ruckle was very exotic, it was half land animals and half bird, but it didn't fly. It was as big as a rabbit. It was very friendly and many Atlantians had them for pets. The Bugboy The Bugboy was a small reptile. It was as small as a mouse, but it was as dangerous as a snake. In fact, it was as poisonous as a blue-ringed octopus. Every year, hundreds of people died from its bite. The Snapkle The Snapkle was a kind of dragon. It lived in the mountains outside of Atlantis. It was as big as an elephant. But it wasn't as beautiful as an elephant. In fact, it was very ugly.  The Hipcop The Hipcop wasn't as friendly as the Rupkle, but it was also a popular pet.  It was as clever as a chimpanzee.

Atlantians had Ruckles in their homes. The Ruckle was bigger than a rabbit.  The Bugboy was very dangerous. 4 The Bugboy was a kind of octopus. 5 The Snapkle was bigger than an elephant. 6 The Snapkle wasn't a beautiful animal. 7 The Hipcop was friendlier than the Ruckle. 8 The Hipcop wasn't as clever as a chimpanzee.

The most amazing Animals in the world

The Estuarine crocodiles of South East Asia are he longest crocodiles in the world. They can be 3 metres long - as Long as two cars together! The bumblebee bat from Thailand is the smallest mammal in the world . It is
8 centimetres long and weighs 150 grams. The world's most poisonous snake  is the taipan. It lives in the deserts of Australia. It can be more than 3
metres long. The most dangerous animal in the world is the mosquito. It
can carry malaria. Every year more than 1 Million people worldwide die from malaria. The biggest animal on land or in the sea is the blue whale. It' s
also the heaviest. It weighs 3 tons. The fastest land animal in the world
is the cheetah. It can run very fast - more than 110 kph.

Which is the tallest?
a D a giraffe
b O an ostrich
c O an elephant
@ Which is the longest?
a D an anaconda
b D a whale shark
c D a crocodile

€) Which is the fastest?
a D a lion
b D a rabbit
c D an antelope
0 Which is the most intelligent?
a D a dolphin
a pig
a chimpanzee
0 Which is the heaviest?
a rhino
a blue whale
an elephant

Number 1: The giraffe is the world’s tallest animal at nearly six metres high. The elephant is about three point seven metres. The ostrich is the world’s tallest bird. It can be two point seven five metres tall. Number 2: The whale shark is the longest. It is twelve and a half metres long. Second is the anaconda, which can grow to eight and a half metres and the third is the crocodile, which can grow to eight metres. Number 3: The antelope is the fastest. It can run at ninety-six kilometres an hour. The lion can run at eighty kilometres an hour and in third place is the rabbit at fifty-six kilometres an hour. Number 4: The chimpanzee is the most intelligent. The dolphin is more intelligent than the pig. Number 5: The blue whale is the heaviest at almost 150,000 kilograms. The elephant can weigh up to 7,000 kilograms and the rhino 2,500 kilograms.

Teatime in Atlantis It's teatime in Atlantis and everyone is there. They drink and sing and you can hear them really everywhere. It's teatime in Atlantis ... The Hipcop and the Rukle went for a cup of tea. It's teatime in Atlantis. They sat down on a sofa. Guess what! Who did they see? The Bugboy and the Snapkle, the Huffump and his son, they had ten cups of orange tea and had a lot of fun. It's teatime in Atlantis.

The Huffump was a kind of shark. It lived in the sea around Atlantis. It was as big as a whale and it was very dangerous. It had a really big mouth and more than 4,000 teeth. Every year it killed and ate more than 200 Atlantians. The Atlantians were very scared of swimming in the sea .


Teatime in Atlantis It's teatime in Atlantis and everyone is there. They drink and sing and you can hear them really everywhere. It's teatime in Atlantis ... The Hipcop and the Rukle went for a cup of tea. It's teatime in Atlantis. They sat down on a sofa. Guess what! Who did they see? The Bugboy and the Snapkle, the Huffump and his son, they had ten cups of orange tea and had a lot of fun. It's teatime in Atlantis.

