Where's the post Office?
The way to the dragon is long and dangerous, Sir Florestan. Florestan I know. But I must go there. Gretta Alright. Then listen to me, Sir Florestan. Here is the best way. Look. Do you see that tree over there? Florestan Yes, I see the tree. Gretta Go past the tree. Then there are three roads.  Take the one in the middle. Florestan Right. The one in the middle. And then? Gretta Go straight ahead. At the old house, turn left. After some time, you get to Bolton Bridge. Cross the bridge and then turn right. Then turn right again and cross the second bridge. Soon you’ll get to the Dark Forest. In the forest there are many little paths. Ride straight on and take the second path on the right. Florestan Alright, the second path on the right. Gretta Yes. It’s very dark there because you’re riding through the forest. Florestan And then? Gretta Follow that path out of the forest. Turn left and then right. You can see Haunted Hill in front of you. Turn left again, ride on, and then... you can hear him. Hear him? Gretta Yes, you can hear ... Dread the Dragon. Good luck, Sir Florestan! ! Florestan Thank you, Gretta. Florestan  Aaaaargh! Dragon A knight and a horse for breakfast. Yummy!

railway station 7 tourist office 2 church 8 music shop 3 post office 9 cinema 4  hospital  10  bank 5  chemist’s  11  supermarket 6 restaurant 12 police Station

DIALOGUE 1 
Woman Excuse me. where's the post office? The post office? Go straight
ahead. Go past the supermarket. Woman Alright. And then? Man Then take the first left. Woman OK. Man Go past the bank. The post office is next to it.

DIALOGUE 2
Excuse me. Yes, dear? Can you tell me where the Odeon cinema is? The Odeon? Well. let me think. It's in Hill Road. How do I get there? Go straight on, take the second right and go past the police station. OK, past the police Station.. Then there's a little park in front of you. Go through the park.
Turn right, then left. and then right again. The cinema is behind the large music shop. Thank you. Not at all.

Excuse me. I’m looking for a good restaurant. Woman 1 There’s a nice Italian one. Man Great. How do I get there? Woman 1 Turn right here and walk up the hill as far as the church. The restaurant is opposite the church. Man Is it far? Woman 1 No, it’s about ten minutes. Man Thank you. Woman 1 You’re welcome. Dialogue 2. Woman 2 Excuse me, I’m looking for the tourist office. Woman 3 Oh, it’s just round the corner. Go straight ahead and turn right. The tourist office is on the left, opposite the police station. Woman 2 Turn right ... OK. Thank you. Woman 3 Not at all.

Missing tourist finally found! Romanian tourist found safe and well after three days. Mr Vasile Belea (63) from Romania came to London three days ago. He wanted to have a holiday with his son's family. His son picked him up from the airport and they went into London by underground. When they changed trains at Stockwell Station, Mr Belea's son, Radu, jumped on the next train and the doors closed. Mr Belea was too slow and the doors closed in front of him. "I came back right away," Radu Belea said, "but Dad wasn't there. So I looked around the  station, and then I went to the next stop again, but I really couldn't find him." We know now that Mr Belea went back into the street and tried to ask a policeman for help. When he finally found one, the policeman was very friendly, but he didn't understand a word Mr Belea said to him. And Mr Belea didn 't know a word of English! So he walked around and  hoped to see his son somewhere, but, of course, he didn't. He asked another policeman  and another - they were all very friendly, but they didn't understand him and he didn't  understand them. Mr Belea had only £17 in his pockets, he didn't know where his son lived,  and he couldn't talk to people. When it got dark, he sat in a bus stop and spent the night  there. In the morning, he started walking again. When he was cold, he went into a shopping centre. He stayed there most of the time, and in the evening he went to a bus stop again.  After two days and nights like this he saw a man reading a newspaper. On the cover of this newspaper he saw a picture: It was him! Mr Belea had one pound left. So he bought a newspaper and with the newspaper he went to a police station. He showed the paper to a policeman there, and after half an hour, Mr Belea was back with his son's family.  We're so glad to have him back," his son said. "And I think it's great that the paper helped so much. They put an extra large photo of my dad on the cover. I really want to thank everybody for their help."

Mr Vasile Belea is  Romanian. 2 Vasile Belea was in London for a holiday with his son's family. 3 Mr Belea got lost in a shopping centre. 4 The policeman didn't speak Romanian. 5 Vasile Belea only had a little money on him. 6 Vasile Be!ea did not know his son's phone number. 7 Where did Vasile Belea spend the nights? 8 Why did Vasile Belea buy the newspaper? 9 Why was the paper a big help?

This is where you go

You want to go to Newtown? Then simply go ahead. Just cross the bridge
and don't Forget to stop when lights are red. Right and left and straight ahead, this is where you go. Right and left and straight ahead, that's what you need to know. You want to go to Market Square? Then take the second right. Then turn left and left again. That's Market Square alright. Right and left and straight ahead … You want to find the cinema? Go past the music shop, and opposite the Restaurant take a few steps more and stop.
Right and left and straight ahead.



fountain 2 bus stop 3 statue 4 clock tower 5 bridge 6 traffic Lights
Excuse me. Leo Yes? Tourist I’m sorry to bother you, but can you  tell me the way to the railway station? Leo Sure, no problem. Lucy Can you see that bus stop over there? Tourist Yes. Lucy Go past it and take the second left. Tourist Second left. Lucy Yes, the second left. Then go straight ahead and turn left at the traffic lights. Tourist Sorry? Straight ahead and then left at the traffic lights. The railway station is at the end of the road. Tourist So that’s second left after the bus stop, then left at the traffic lights. Lucy That’s right. You can’t go wrong. Tourist Thank you. 

Walk past the bus stop and then take the second left. Go straight ahead until you get to some traffic lights. Turn left. The railway Station is at the end of the road.

