mountain  9  hill2  moon  10  fields3  stars  11  motorway4  sun  12  river5  town  13  road6  valley  14  village7  beach  15  forest8  sea  16  lake

L et’s go canoeing on Monday. Boy Canoeing? I’m not sure. Girl Well, you don’t have to come along. I’ll go alone, then. Boy Wait a minute. I think I’ll join you. Girl Great. But bring warm clothes! And you have to wear a life jacket in the boat all the time. Boy Of course. I know that

Build a tree house!
When: Thursday 3 p.m.
Don't be late. Bring a hard hat!

Go for a picnic 
When: Sunday 22 a.m.
Bring your own food and drink!
Clean up the picnic area after the picnic!

Go rock climbing!
When: Friday 11 a.m. 
Bring warm clothes and good shoes.
Read the camp guide carefully.

Visit the waterfalls!
When: Saturday 2 p.m.
Don't be late! Wear an anorak near the waterfalls!

Emma, when did you go on a treasure hunt? Girl That was last summer. We were on holiday in Wales. Interviewer And what did you find? Girl A pen, a pink pen. Interviewer Nice. And where did you find it? Girl Under a rock on a hill. Interviewer Was it difficult to find? Girl No, it wasn’t. Interviewer And Harry, when did you go on a treasure hunt? Boy Last weekend. I went on the treasure hunt with my dad and my sister. And what did you find? Boy A book. Interviewer Oh really. What was it? Boy Clockwork by Philip Pullman. Interviewer Nice. And where did you find it? Boy I n a boat. Interviewer I n a boat? Boy Yes, it was in a boat on the beach. Interviewer Was it difficult to find? Boy Yes, it was. I looked for it for a long time.

Treasure Hunt
When Dad said that Gillie and I could go to an adventure holiday camp, I wasn't too excited. I didn't want to go on a holiday camp with my nine- year-old sister! But Gillie really loved the idea. So I couldn't say no. But the camp was great! Lots of new friends and Gillie was OK, too (most of the time. What I liked most about the camp were the surprise activities: wild water canoeing, rock climbing, a visit to the waterfall - these things were never boring. No wonder - Rick, Pamela, Laura, Jack and Ron (our guides) were fantastic. Especially Ron I He was really cool. One Friday, Gillie was very excited: "Chris, come quickly, there's a geo-caching treasure hunt with Ron tomorrow. Quick, only 20 kids can go!" "Geo-caching???" I thought. I had no idea what it was - but I didn't want to ask. I was fourteen. And she was nine, you know! "Geocaching? Not a bad idea," I said. When we wrote our names on the list, I saw this note: Geo-Caching treasure hunt! When: Wednesday 1 P.M. Bring: Good shoes, a snack and a bottle of water. Don't forget: one or two small Things for the cache! Write your name on the list - only 20 kids can go! See you Ron. I went to speak to Ron later to find out more about geo-caching and this was what I learnt: for geo-caching you need a GPS unit. The camp guides tell you where you can find the 'treasure'. But they don't say things like "go through the forest until you come to a little pond" etc. They only tell you the coordinates of the place (for example 1.27 mi S: GCG8VS), and you put them in your GPS and off you go! Oh, there's something else: The treasure is usually several small things in a box (the so-called 'cache'!). You can take out as many as you want. But for every treasure you take out, vou have to put in something new. The next day we started our geo-Caching hunt. We looked for three hours, and we looked everywhere, behind every tree, under every stone, in every hole in the ground. Nothing! "Let's go back!" I said. Then suddenly Gillie shouted "Here it is!" She had her hand in a hole in the Ground and when she took her hand out, I knew that it wasn't a cache! In her hand, my nine-year-old sister Gillie had a handful of old coins! Back at the camp, we showed the coins to Ron. He laughed. "Old coins? Ha, ha, ha! Good joke! They're not old. But give them to me!" Ron was very nice. He gave me a DVD and my sister a bar of chocolate for the coins! Later in the evening, Gillie showed me a coin. "I didn't give him this
one," she said. "I wanted to keep it." "Silly idea," I thought. But I didn't say much. After all, she was only nine. Two days later, there was a visit to a museum in a town near our camp. Ron went, so of Course Gillie and I went along, too. We saw lots of interesting Things Gillie suddenly
shouted. "Look! The coins! The coins! They look like my coins!" Gillie was
very excited. She looked at the coin in her hand. It looked exactly like the old Roman coins behind the glass window.  There was a man in uniform at the other end of the room. When Ron saw him, he got very nervous. "Be quiet, you silly girl!" he shouted. But the man in the uniform saw the coin. "Where did you find this coin?" he asked. "In the forest," Gillie said. "But not only this one. We found lots of them. And Ron has got them
all. Ron has got them!" Gillie pointed at Ron. Suddenly he did not look
very cool any more. He turned around and ran away! Then things happened very quickly. The man in the uniform phoned the police. Two very friendly police officers came and took us to the police station in a car. "These coins are Roman coins. They're very old," one of them said. "And when you find old coins, you have to give them to the museum. Nobody can keep them!
We're going to find this young man, Ron. He has to give the coins to the museum!" Two days later the police found Ron . They took the coins away from him. They are now behind glass in the museum. And next to them is a
little sign: Gillie is very proud of this. Well, after all, she is only
nine … 

Chris was excited by the idea of a holiday camp. 2 Chris changed his idea s when he got to the camp. 3 Ron was a guide at the camp. 4 For geo-caching you do not need a map. 5 Gillie found the treasure under the ground. 6 Gillie gave Ron nearly all the coins. 7 How did Gillie find out that her coins were really old coins?  8 Why was the man at t he museum upset?  9 What happened to the coins? 

Youth camp
[1] The camp is really great! There are lots of things to do here like football and volleyball, for example. We can go horse riding too. We can go swimming in the river - it's fantastic! We never get bored. [2] Yesterday I went on a great canoeing trip! We went down the river for two hours and then we had a picnic. Jack, our guide, made a fire and we sang songs and played games. (3) Everything is great, but of course there are rules. We have to go t o bed at ten. We have to help in the kitchen. We have to make our beds. But we don't have to wash up - that's good. I hope you and Dad are well. See you soon. Love, Sam


