watch a DVD   do the shopping   tidy (your) room   play basketball    do (your) homework   stay at a friend’s house   have a party   do Nothing

What are your plans for the weekend, Sharon? Sharon Nothing special. Girl Are you going to a party? Sharon No, I’m too tired. I’m going to do nothing. Girl What are your plans for the weekend, Nick? Nick I’m going to Cambridge. I’m going to stay at Joe’s place. Girl Joe is your friend, right? Can I come? Nick Yes, of course you can. Girl What are your plans for the weekend, Chloe? Chloe It’s my birthday on Sunday. So I’m going to have a party on Saturday. Girl Happy birthday, Chloe. Chloe  Thanks. Girl What are your plans for the weekend, Bill? Bill I’m going to do homework. Girl All weekend? Bill Yes, I’m going to work on this project. Girl  Project? Bill It’s a project on aeroplanes. I’m going to do a presentation on Monday.

What are your plans for the Weekend? I'm going to do Nothing. What About TV? I'm not going to watch TV. There's Nothing good on. And your School Project? I'm not going to do any work this Weekend.

Have you got any special plans for the weekend? Well, I’m going to watch DVDs tomorrow night. Do you want to watch  them with me?  I'd love to, but I can't leave. Oh why not? I'm going to Jenny's Party. Oh, that's too bad!

Hey, Dad, listen. I'm sorry. But I'm not going to tidy my room. I'm not going to make my bed. I'm not going to work for school. I'm going to take it easy instead. Listen, Sam. That's fine, but .. . I'm not going to cook for you. I'm not going to drive you around. I'm not going to buy you sweets. I'm not go ing to give you a pound. Hey, listen Dad. That was only a Joke. Honestly … I am going to tidy my room. I am going to make my bed.
I am going to do my work, I am now going to go ahead. Really! Believe me, Dad!


Hi Zen, There was a phone call from Mia. She's not feeling well. She's not going to come over today. Dad

Hey, Mum. I'm really sorry. I've got a lot of work for school this week. So I'm not going to come along to see Grandma on Sunday.
Hello Zoe, thanks for your invitation for Sunday. Great! My parents and my little brother Lucas are going to visit Grandma. I'm not going with them. I'll tell them I've got a lot of work for school. LOL! Mia

Hi there, I really, really, really wanted to see you today, Zoe. Then my mum said no. I felt ashamed 
and didn't want to tell you I had to go with them. It was a big mistake! Sorry for telling 
you a lie. Can we meet up tomorrow after school? Mia

Hi Mia, I saw the photos your brother posted on FB. I can see you had a lot of fun. But why did you tell me you're ill? Zoe

OK, I understand. I'm not going to join you all, of course. Mia

I've just come home. We had a great Sunday out. We that's Mum, Dad, me and my sister Mia. We went to Brighton to see Grandma. Mia and I climbed a tree - see the photo! She's cool. I really like my sister.

Dear Mia, Come to my birthday party next Sunday. Time: 10 A.M. - 6 P.M. Place: 7. Station Road Love, Zoe

What does Mia say in her email to Zoe About Sunday? She's not going to visit her grandma with her family. 2 What message does Mia give Zoe's dad?
D She's not feeling well and isn't going to come over to Zoe's place. 3 What does Zoe see on Mia's brother's Facebook page? A photo of Lucas and Mia.4 How does Mia feel when Zoe finds out what she did? She feels sorry she didn't tell Zoe the truth.


William, the worrier William has got a dirving test in the morning, and he's worried. William is always worried! We're going to the cinema. Do you want to come? No, thanks. We might miss the last bus home and I have to get to bed early tonight. Do you want to go for a practice drive? No, thanks. I might crash the car. I need the car for my test tomorrow. The next morning.
I'm sorry, William. Your test was yesterday! I don't want to go to the beach the sun might be too hot. 2 I don't want to go skiing might break my leg. 3 I'm going to study tonight we might have a test tomorrow. 4 I don't want to go near that dog it might bite. 6 I don't want to ride your bike I might fall off. 7 I'm not going to eat that it might be poisonous. 8 I'm not going to go trick-or-treating I might get into trouble.  5 I don't want to answer the teacher's question I might not get it right.
