
The president of the planet Trojan spoke to all the people. "People of Trojan!" she said. "I'm sorry, but I have bad news for you. Two months ago,
we found out that a planet is coming towards us. A hundred years from now, the other planet is going to hit us, and the planet Trojan is going to explode. We can't stop this - it's going to happen." The Trojan people were very scared. The president said more. "People of Trojan, we have only got one hundred years. But we've got a plan. We're going to build spaceships - huge spaceships, the biggest spaceships in the history of the universe. Each spaceship is going to be big enough to carry 10,000 people - and we are going to build 20,000 spaceships! In this way, we can take every Trojan man, woman and child to another place - a safe place - before the other
planet hits us." The people asked: "Where? Where is this place that we can all go to?" The president said: "There is another planet, very far from here. It is a planet where Trojan People can live. The air is like our air; the water is like our water; and there is room for us. The name of this planet is: Earth! Earth is going to be our new home. Now, we have to get ready!" The next day, the people of Trojan started to build the spaceships. It took them a very Long time - more than fifteen years - to build the first 1,000 spaceships. And after fifty years, 5,000 spaceships were ready. And finally, all the 20,000 spaceships were ready. The spaceships were
round, like huge yellow footballs - so big that 10,000 Trojans could go inside. Then, one day, the people of Trojan said goodbye to their home.
They went into the spaceships. And, one by one, the spaceships took off. And the Trojans began the journey to their new home. Twenty years later,
the spaceships arrived at the planet Earth. One day, Jenny was in her garden. It was an ice, sunny morning. Her dog, Josh, was with her - and
suddenly he started to bark very loudly. "What's the matter, Josh?" she said, and she walked over to him. In the air, there were lots of strange, round, yellow seeds. The seeds fell from the sky, and one by one they landed on the grass. Jenny looked around - there were thousands of the seeds on the ground. Just then, her Father came out of the house. "What are you looking at, Jenny?" he asked. " Come here, Dad," she said. " Look at this !" Her father came over and looked at the yellow seeds. "How strange!"
he sa id. " But I haven't got time to look at them now. I' ve got to go to work. Jenny, tidy up here, please!" And her father walked to his car. He walked on some of the seeds and they went "Crack! I" Jenny's father got into his car and went to work. Jenny went into the house. She got a broom and came back to the garden. Then she started to sweep up the little yellow seeds. She put them into the dustbin. The planet Trojan is going to explode in 10 years. 2 Each spaceship can take 10,000 Trojans.  3 Trojan is very similar to Earth 4 The spaceships were like yellow seeds. 5 The journey to Earth took 17 years. 6 Jenny was in the garden with her dog. 7 Why was Josh barking? Why was Jenny's dad in a hurry?  Jenny's dad asked her to tidy up the garden.

spaceship, Galaxy, Alien, time machine, Astronaut, space Station

They never saw him again. James was alone in a town.  He heard a strange noise He turned round. He found a gold key on the ground. He picked it up. 
He saw a green light in a window. He turned the key in the door of the house. He walked into the house.


Song of the Trojans. Trojans, Trojans, let's leave this place. Trojans, Trojans, off into space. Goodbye sweet, sweet Trojan. Goodbye sweet, sweet home. Let's board all our spaceships. Into space we will roam. Goodbye sweet, sweet Trojan. The ships they all wait. We're leaving our Trojan.
We hope it's not too late. Trojans, Trojans, … Goodbye sweet, sweet Trojan.
Sleep well, all my friends. And dream of our planet. Our Trojan time ends.
Goodbye sweet, sweet Trojan. To Earth we now go. And a new planet Trojan
out there we will grow. Trojans, Trojans, 


UFOs - are they really out there? There are people who believe in UFOs, ufologists, and there are people who don't. There are thousands of photos of unidentified flying objects (UFOs). Many of them are nothing but clouds or balloons and airplanes. And some of them are fakes. Here is one of the
most famous UFO photographs and the story behind it: On May 11 1\ 1950
Evelyn Trent was in the garden of her farm in McMinnville, Oregon. On her
way back to the house, she saw a metallic disk flying in her direction.
She called out to her husband. He quickly got a camera and took pictures of the disk. Even today ufologists believe that this photo shows a UFO; other people say it is a hoax, a trick to fool people. The Trents died many years ago, so we will never know the truth from them. In 2013, there was a big
investigation into the photograph. Scientists used the most modern technology to study the photo, but the experts still couldn't decide if
it was real or not. A ufologist believes in UFOs. Evelyn Trent thought she saw a UFO in the back garden. Mr Trent took a photo of the "UFO". The Trents are no longer alive. Scientists studied the photo in 2013. What does Paul believe aliens are doing? Why are they doing this? What does George think about his ideas? Good morning. I’m Hanna Thimble and this is “Factcheck”. With us today we have ufologist Paul Brady and George Brendel who does not believe in UFOs. Paul, you  told me you saw a UFO a few years ago. Paul That’s right, Hanna. I knew right away it was a UFO, because it looked very much like the UFO people saw in Colfax, Wisconsin in 1978. It was there only for a few seconds so I couldn’t take a picture, but I’m absolutely sure it was a UFO and ... George Sorry to interrupt, but how can you know? Maybe this Colfax picture was a hoax and what you saw was a hoax too. Paul There are so many UFO pictures, they can’t all be hoaxes. George No, of course not, some are clouds, some are airplanes, some are other objects in the  sky. Paul I don’t think this is funny. I believe that every day aliens kidnap people from Earth to  study them – and then bring them back to Earth when they’re finished. George Why would they do that? Paul To know more about us. Because in the end they want to take over our planet. They  want to live here on Earth. George Why don’t they just send hundreds of UFOs and take over the world then? Paul Because they want to make sure Earth is the right place for them. They also don’t want to destroy it with a war. George I ’m sorry, Paul, this is just nonsense.



