 Are cars more important than kids?  Scene 1 In a street  Did you hear about our park? No. What's up? They want to cut down some of the trees and make it much smaller. What? Why would they do that? They want to build a multi-storey car park in the park. But then we won't be able to play there any longer. No more football ... ... and the half pipe has to go, tool We can't allow that to happen! We have to do something. But what can we do? I don't know. Let's go and talk to the other kids in t he park.  Scene 2 In the park  I've found out more about the plans for t he car park. OK, so what's the bad news? Richard and I talked to a city planner yesterday. He said, "Don't worry, you'll still have half the park." But that's not true! Old ladies walk their dogs in the other half. And there's no playing field. That's what we told him, too. And? Sandra He said we have to share with the other people ... Richard ... and the dogs. Work's going to start in a month. We must do something . Let's organise a protest march through the park. Soo-min And let's make leaflet s! Tony And let's write a petition. We' ll ask people to sign it.  Scene 3 In the park Tony Read the headline out to us, Sandra. Sandra Alright. It says: "60 kids say no to the car park." Tony Hey, that doesn't sound fair. Sandra And it also says: "Aren't they too young for protest marches?" Soo-min What does the other paper say? Sandra This is better - "Surprise for city planners - over 400 people sign petition". Richard All  Let's send out emails. And let's organise another march. Great! Yeah, let's! Scene 4 At the meeting Chairman Order, please, order! Mr Parker from the planning office, please. Mr Parker People who live here want to park their cars here! Man 1 But our kids won't be able to play here any longer. Sandra And kids who live here want to play here! Other kids Right! That's true! Well said, Sandra.  Order, please, order! I'm sorry, but we can't let more than a hundred kids sit around in the park when we want to begin our work. The parents must do something about it. And they will! They'll sit in the park, too! Yes. We will! I haven't got kids, I've got a car. And I have rights, too. Don't you think that kids are more important than cars? I'm not saying cars are more important, but we need them, too. I'm sure your dad's got a car. Richard But cars are everywhere, and we've only got this one playing field. Others Well said! He's right. Chairman Mr Parker, I think you've got an idea of what the people here think. Mr Parker That's right. Well, we've tried to come up with a solution that everyone likes, but it seems we haven't been able to find one yet.  Scene 5 In the park ... and thank you very much, everybody, for your help. For your help with getting signatures, for taking part in the marches, for sitting in the park for hours and hours, for making and handing out leaflets. Thank you for helping us. And is it true that they're really looking for another site for the car park? That's what Mr Parker said. And have they found one yet? No, I don't think so. What if they come back? We'll start again. Right. We were able to stop them this time. We'll be able to stop them next time, too. Kids have got rights too, you know. Yeah Kids have got rights Save our park Soo-min likes to play football in the park. 2 The children have a month before work starts on the car park. 3 The children aren't happy with the headline in the first newspaper. 4 Mr Parker wants D the parents to control their children. D somewhere to park his car. D more time to make a decision. 5 Man 2 D thinks cars are more important than kids. D is worried for the children. D supports the plans for the park. 6 At the end the children D are happy because they won. D are worried because the work is going to start soon. D are ready to carry on fighting if they need to. 7 Which side of the argument do you agree with?  . 8 Who do you think will win and why?  . 8 What changes to your town would you protest against? 

 Lisa Have you heard the latest? John No, what is it? Lisa They want to cut down the old tree in front of the school. John But that's where we hang out after school. Lisa We've got to do something. John Let's organise a meeting.  DIALOGUE 2 Anna There's been another accident in our street. Jerry Not again! We need traffic lights there. It's not safe for the kids. Anna Let's organise a petition. Jerry Right. And how about writing hundreds of emails to the city council? Anna Good idea. Jerry And if that doesn't help, we can organise a protest march. Anna Great!  • There have been several car accidents in front of the school. • Students are not allowed to use school computers for their project work. • The school library is not open any more in the afternoon.  

 Don't drop litter D Recycle glass bottles. D Don't ask your parents to drive short distances. Ride your bike or walk. in the streets. D Don't take plastic bags D Recycle paper. at your supermarket. D Buy locally produced food. D Save water. Bring a basket. D Don't leave bottles or cans on the beach.  I ... save water. a) D always c) D hardly ever b) D sometimes d) D never 2 We ... buy locally produced food. a) D always c) D hardly ever b) D sometimes d) D never 3 I ... take a basket or cloth bag when shopping. a) D always c) D hardly ever b) D sometimes d) D never 4 I ... take glass bottles to the bottle bank. a) D always c) D hardly ever b) D sometimes d) D never 5 I .. . leave litter behind when leaving the beach. a) D never c) D sometimes b) D hardly ever d) D always e wa~ 6 I ... throw paper, wrappings, plastic bottles into the street. al D never c) D sometimes b) D hardly ever d) D always 7 I ... put paper into special containers to be recycled. a) 0 always c) 0 hardly ever b) D sometimes d) D never 8 I ... ask my parents to drive me short distances. al D never c) D sometimes b) 0 hardly ever d) D always 

You're listening to Melanie's morning hour and with me in the studio is Isabel Taunton, a history teacher at Sanders Comprehensive School to talk about a project she did with her girls in 4A. Isabel, what was the project about? It was about suffrage, which, in simple words, is the right of women to vote. The girls couldn't believe that a hundred years ago women couldn't vote just because they were women. You're talking about Britain, aren't you? Well, yes, that was our starting point. We created  little history project for the school's webpage which goes back to the middle of the 19th century when the idea of women voting first came up in Parliament. Then we did something on the suffragettes up until 1928 when they finally got the vote. Dd you look at other countries, too? Isabel Yes, we looked at the USA, where by 1920 all women had the vote, although in some states, like Wyoming, they had suffrage as early as 1869. We soon found out that there was quite a difference around the world. Melanie So you looked at even more countries? Yes, of course. I mean, in Switzerland, women were only allowed to vote as late as 1971. And in places like Kuwait, it took as long as 2005 for women to get the vote. Most countries, however, gave women the right to vote 50, 60 or 100 years ago. Melanie Did your class enjoy doing the project? Isabel Oh, yes, they did. They liked the way we did it. I didn't tell them anything, they had to find information themselves. And it was a good first step to show them that it has never been easy to ensure people have equal rights. And that you have to stand up for your rights… What do you mean, first step? Well, now we're looking at the problem of equal rights for men and women today, and as we all know, there's still a lot of work ahead of us. Melanie Thank you very much, Isabel, and I wish you all the best for your next project. Isabel Thank you. Melanie And now for a song by.. 

 Men and women - equal rights?  Did you know that there are countries where men are still very much against women driving cars? It may sound like a joke, but for women in some parts of the world it isn't. It's real, and it's hard to believe.  At least in Europe, you might say, men and women have the same rights. Well, statistics show that this is not always the case. For example, women do not always get the same amount of money for doing the same kind of work. And often a job goes to a man although there is a woman who is better qualified for it. In many countries women have had to fight for their rights over the years. Even in Austria women haven't always been allowed to do what men have. See for yourself:  Until 1869, girls were only allowed to go to school for a maximum of six years. From 1869, they could go to school for eight years, but they had to learn different things from boys (they had to do a lot of needlework, and learn to cook, for example). In 1872 girls were allowed to pass the final exams (Matura) for the first time, but they couldn't take the exam at their school - they had to sit for it as 'Externisten' at a boys' school. However, girls were still not allowed to attend university.  1892 saw the first Gymnasium for girls in Vienna. At the same time there were 77 Gymnasien for boys. It was only in 1906 that girls could take their final exams at a school for girls. 1893 saw the "Allgemeine Osterreichische Frauenverein" open. Its goal was to help women as they still did not have the right to vote. From 1897 onward women were allowed to attend university but they were not allowed to study all subjects. The first Austrian female medical doctor (1897) had to study in Switzerland. In 1918 women were allowed to vote for the first time.  Until 1949 female teachers were not allowed to marry. (They also earned 10% less than men and had to pay more taxes.) Until 1975 women were not allowed to have a job unless their husbands gave their permission. In 1993 a law was passed that said that men and women have to be treated as equals.  The situation is much better nowadays, but will men and women ever have the same rights completely? Here is some food for thought, and it comes from a biog entry by 13-year-old Amie Cotton from Chester: Men and women are not equal. They can't be. That's neither good nor bad, it's just the way it is. We can't change that, even if we want to. But men can be fair to women. That's a choice we can make, and that choice is important! What rights should girls have that they have not got yet? Are there any rights boys should have that they have not got yet? Girls should have the right to... GIrls (also) must be allowed to... it should be forbidden to... 

 Rosa Parks When Rosa Parks (1913-2005) refused to give up her seat on the bus to a white man on December 1 st , 1955, she wasn't just tired from work. She was also tired of getting up again and again for white men who wanted her seat. The rest is American history - her arrest. a 381-day bus boycott, and, finally, in November 1956, the decision that it was illegal to have different seats for white people and AfricanAmericans. Finally, African-Americans could sit on a bus, the same as white people.  Erin Brockovich In the early 1990s, Erin Brockovich (b. 1960), a single mother of three, was working for a law firm. While organising papers one day, she discovered that many people who lived in and around Hinkley, California, in the 1960s, 70s and 80s were very ill. She later found out that there was poison in the water. It came from a gas and electricity company. In 1996, she and lawyer* Ed Masry won $333 million for more than 600 people from Hinkley. 

Oe of my heroes is definitely Mahatma Ghandi. I think it was really great, the way he fought the British. He taught his people how to protest, but how to protest in a non-violent way. There's a special Indian word for this, too, but I can't remember the word right now. I've seen the film several times and I always cry when the Indians march up to the British soldiers and the soldiers shoot them, but the Indians don't fight back. One of my heroes is my older brother and there's a good reason for it. When he and many of his friends lost their jobs, he organised a protest march and held meetings and talks. They weren't able to get their jobs back, because the company closed down a month later, but they got a lot of help and he and some of the others used their money to start a new company and now they're doing well. I think it shows you, you should never give up. Don't laugh, but one of my heroines is Buffy the Vampire Slayer. I know there are no vampires and stuff, but I think it's great how Buffy fights evil and never gives up, and how much courage she has. And, of course, I like the love and friendship bits, too.