Did you have a good time on your holiday, Jake? Jake Yes thanks! It was brilliant! Girl Where did you go? I can't remember! California. We were there for three weeks. We rented a car and drove to lots of different places. That sounds great. Where exactly did you go? Well, we started our holiday in San Francisco. We stayed there for four days, and then we got the car. First we went to Monterey, and then to Los Angeles. Los Angeles? Wow. I'd love to go there. Yeah, it was cool. Anyway, after Los Angeles, we went to San Diego and to Death Valley. It was so hot there!! Is that where your holiday finished? No, no. From Death Valley we went to the Yosemite National Park. After that, my mum and dad wanted to go to Napa, but my sister and I didn't want to — so we went back to San Francisco, stayed 2 more days and then we came back to England again. Wow! That sounds like a really, really cool holiday. Yeah, it was. We saw some great things! Like what? What was your favourite thing? My favourite? Hmm — well, you know, when we were in San Francisco, my dad and I went to an American football game! We saw the 49ers play — I loved it! Boring, Jake! Come on — other things, not just sport! 0K. Well, we saw whales at sea — that was great! Whales? Where? In Monterey. You can get boat rides to go and see the whales. Neat! Yeah. We saw a bear, too. You're joking! What — in Monterey? No, no, no, we saw the bear in Yosemite. And I'm not joking! black bear! It wasn't very close, but we did see it. Honestly! 0K. I believe you! But, Jake, didn't you see any famous places too? You know, like Disneyland or somewhere. Isn't Disneyland in California? Yeah, it's in Los Angeles — yeah, we saw that. It was 0K — but I think the one in Orlando is better. Oh, and in San Francisco we saw the bridge, the Golden Gate Bridge. Cool! Oh, Jake! I've just remembered. Did you see any of those really big trees? You know, the Redwood trees? The ones we learned about in school last year. Yeah, we went to see them in the Yosemite Park. Not in the Redwood Park? No, we didn't go up to north California. But we saw the trees in Yosemite. Boy, they're big!! What a great holiday! You bet. I really want to go back some time.

How Long did you spend there? Where did you go first? Did you have  good time? Did you walk along the beach? Did you go on any good rides? Did you o Sightseeing? When did ou come back?



Question number one. The answer is C. There are about 40 million people living in the state of California. Question number two. The answer is B — Sacramento. San Francisco and Los Angeles are bigger, but Sacramento is the state capital. Question number three. The answer is C — San Francisco. Question number four. A — Spanish. There are millions of Spanish-speaking people in Los Angeles. Question number five. The answer is A — Beverly Hills. Question number six. For a long time, Alcatraz was famous as a prison — so the answer is C, a prison. Question number seven. The answer is B. People went to California to look for gold — the time was called the Gold Rush. Question number eight. Death Valley is sometimes very, very hot — and one day in 1913 the temperature was 57 degrees. So the correct answer is B Question number nine. The answer is A — wine. Question number ten. This band was perhaps the most famous band ever in California, and they were called — The Beach Boys. The correct answer is C. California Dreaming How much do you know about California? How many people live in California? a} about 15 million b) about 25 million c} about 40 million  Which city is the state capital of California 7  a) Los Angeles b) Sacramento c) San Francisco  The Napa Valley is famous for... a) wine b) oranges c) cactuses  Which Californian city has the biggest number of Chinese people outside China? a} Los Angeles b) San Diego c) San Francisco  This Californian group were very famous in the 1960s. Who were they? a) The Beatles b) The Rolling Stones c) The Beach Boys  One day in 1913, the temperature in Death Valley was ... a) 47°C b} 57°C c) 67°C  In 1849, about 40,000 people went to California to look for ... a} silver b} gold c} diamonds   In which part of Los Angeles do many famous film stars live? a) Beverly Hills b} Anaheim c} San Jose  What language do many people in Los Angeles speak? a} Spanish b) Italian c} Portuguese  From 1868 to 1963, the island of Alcatraz was ... a) a castle b} a hotel c} a prison  



Home From Home  A few months ago Olivia Thornbury's mother, Claire, got a job as a programmer in Silicon Valley, so she moved to California with her 15-year-old daughter from Manchester in England. Amelia, a classmate of Olivia's from her previous school in Manchester, has interviewed her for the school magazine.  Amelia How long have you been living in California, Olivia?  A bit less than half a year.  And where do you live? Olivia In Silicon Valley, but everybody calls it 'The Valley' here, just as they call San Francisco 'The City'. Actually, we lived in San Francisco at first, and my mum commuted* to The Valley every day. But she really didn't like driving for more than two hours every day - or much longer when the traffic was bad. So we moved. We've been living here for about six weeks now.  How do you like living in your new place? Olivia We've got an awesome house. It has windows all over the place, as many of the houses here do. The weather here is so beautiful. Most of the time it's sunny and warm. Californians want to feel as though they're ALWAYS outside! And when you walk round, it's not uncommon* to hear many different languages in the street. There is such a great mix of different cultures, which is just awesome. It always reminds me that people exist outside of our little bubble, that the world is huge and wonderful. And people are all smiles, it seems everybody loves living here. I've never heard anybody complain about the place.  Your mum works as a programmer, and Silicon Valley is the world's most famous place for IT companies. How does that feel?  Olivia lrs great. I'm so proud of Mum and it's fascinating to hear her talking about her work. But I seriously need to stop acting like I've just met a celebrity when I meet someone who works (or has worked) at Google or Facebook. Because that's pretty normal around here. But STILL - it is awesome! Oh, and another thing. The techies - as they call themselves - speak a funny language sometimes.  What do you mean?    Well, I'll give you an example. They use 'bandwidth' for 'time'.  Bandwidth for time? What does that mean? Olivia Let me give you an example. A friend of mine said the other day, 'I don't think I have the bandwidth for this! I think I'd need some help'. He didn't mean that he needed help because his internet connection was slow. He meant that he hadn't got enough TIME ...  What other things are you finding different in California? Olivia Well, fruits and vegetables are fresher. A lot of the fruit you buy from the grocery store is actually local, so you can really taste the difference in freshness. There are farmers' markets on nearly every corner too. And then there's the best avocado in the world - it's like butter! I've been eating avocado every day since we first came here. Before I didn't even like it. Californians put avocado into everything!  And finally, is there anything that is completely different from how you imagined it? Olivia Yes, boots. All the girls wear boots. And it's summer now and really hot. 'Why would I need boots in sunny California?' I thought, and left mine at home. Big mistake. Everyone wears boots. I look silly in my flip-flops. But now you have to excuse me. I'm on my way to our garage Sorry? Olivia Yes, I'm building the next multimillion dollar tech company! In your dreams!  Olivia has been living in Silicon Valley for D almost six months. D a month. D one and a half months. 2 Olivia's house D is different from other houses in Silicon Valley. D has a lot of glass. D is very warm. 3 Most Californians D speak more than one language. D are happy living there. D complain about the weather. 4 Olivia meets a lot of famous people in Silicon Valley. T/ F 5 Californian avocados are delicious but quite hard. TI F 6 Olivia didn't bring her boots with her from the UK. T/ F 7 How happy do you think Olivia is, living in California? 8 Which of the things she talks about sounds most attractive to you? 9 What things would you miss most about Austria if you moved to another country? 

dry □ rucksack 2 you have no signal □ deep valley with steep 3 to spot sides of rock 4 backpack □ road made of hard earth 5 headquarters □ to notice (someone) 6 dirt road □ area at the top of a mountain 7 ridge □  Canyon


Did you know? Death Valley is about 320 km northeast of L.A. The valley is situated between two mountain ranges. It gets less than 5 cm of rain a year and is very hot - often up to 50 degrees in the summer months. In 1849, during the gold rush in California, a group of gold diggers got lost in this valley and died of thirst - that's why it's called Death Valley. What was your holiday in California like, Christine? It was great, but . But what? It's not easy for me to talk about what happened to Oliver and me in Death Valley. Come on, tell us. Well, we rented a jeep in Las Vegas, which isn't far from Death Valley. Oliver wanted a four-wheel drive car because he wanted to take photos in the mountains around the valley. So, what happened? Well, the first day we looked at all the sights in Death Valley. On the second day we drove up into the mountains to take some photos. Oliver went up a canyon. At first, there was a dirt road, but then there were just tracks and after a while we couldn't go on any more. We got out of the car, put the water bottles into our backpacks and started walking. Soon we were on top of a ridge. We had a wonderful view and Oliver took lots of photos. It was very hot and we drank some water. Then Oliver saw this strange looking tree and wanted to take some more photos. So we walked up the next ridge. Oliver took the photos, we drank the rest of our water and then we wanted to go back to our car. Didn't you? Well, when we were on top of the ridge we couldn't see our car. We ran down into the canyon, but there was no car there. There were no tracks. We were in the wrong canyon. Did you still have some water? No, we didn't. And that was the problem. There was lots of water in the car, but we'd only taken two bottles because all we wanted to do was take a short walk. So, what happened then? Oliver decided to go down into the valley to get help. He wanted me to stay in the shade of a giant rock. Soon I got very thirsty. My mouth was dry and my lips began to crack. I fell asleep for a while, but when I woke up I had a terrible headache and I felt very weak. Didn't you have a mobile phone? Yes, but there was no signal. How long did you lie there? For about six hours. It took Oliver four hours to reach the road. A family in a car spotted him, stopped and took him to the Park Headquarters. He told them about the car and the rock where I was lying. How did they rescue you? By helicopter. They took me to hospital in Las Vegas. What a story! Unbelievable. You two were quite lucky in the end. Yeah, that's Right.


Los Angeles Some 'must do' sightseeing things for visitors 1 Walk along the Walk of Fame See the stars and the hand-prints in the pavement of many famous people, like Marilyn Monroe and Bvls Presley. They're on Hollywood Boulevard and Vine Street. (And I You can even see the 'paw-prints' of Lassie, the film-star dog of the 1950s!)   2 Visit Universal Studios  This is one of the most famous film studios in Hollywood. See where and how some of the greatest movies of all time were made. Meet King Kong and Terminator 2 - and the Jurassic Ride.  Go to Venice Beach Walk along the sidewalks in Venice Beach. Watch the skateboarders or just sit and eat an ice cream. Hire a bike and go cycling. you might see some famous movie stars!  Spend the day at The California Adventure This is Disney's most recent park, beside Disneyland in Anaheim, but it's than Disneyland itself. There are some great rides (like California Screaming) but also lots of cool information about the state of California (its history, its parks, its people).  

