 an earthquake an avalanche a volcanic eruption a flood a drought a tsunami a forest fire a mudslide a hurricane  Did you know The word volcano comes from the Roman god of fire. He was called Vulcan. Early man thought that volcanoes were punishment from the gods. About 250,000 people have been killed in volcanic eruptions over the last 400 years. In 1963 an undersea volcano erupted to form the world's newest land mass - Surlsey island off the coast of Iceland.  All you need to know about Volcanoes So what exactly is a volcano?   A volcano is a mountain which is open at the top. It also has a hole running down through it to a pool of magma under the surface of the Earth. Think of it as a gateway to the centre of the Earth!  Why do volcanoes erupt? Inside the volcano there is a lot of gas and this gas creates a lot of pressure. An eruption happens when the pressure becomes too much and the gases force their way out through the crater. This causes a huge explosion and huge rocks are thrown into the sky. Lava is sent down the sides of the mountain, destroying everything that gets in the way. The power of a volcano is enormous. For example, an eruption of Mount St Helen's in 1980 had the power of 500 atom bombs - and that wasn't a very big explosion. How many volcanoes are there in the world? It's impossible to know because many volcanoes are under the sea, but on Earth there are about 1,500 that have erupted sometime over the last 10,000 years. Most of these are now dormant, which means they aren't expected to erupt very soon. But there are also between 50-70 volcanoes that are active every year. What is the world's largest volcano? Mauna Loa in Hawaii is the world's biggest volcano. It is formed by layers and layers of dried lava and is more than 4,000 m high. It is also one of the world's most active volcanoes and has erupted 33 times since 1843. The last eruption was in 1984 and scientists think it won't be too long before its next one. The largest volcano in our solar system is Olympus Mons on Mars although it is now extinct.   A volcano is a mountain which is open at the top . 2 Huge rocks are thrown into the sky. 3 Lava is sent down the sides of the mountain. 4 Many volcanoes are under the the sea . 5 Many volcanoes on Earth are now dormant -  they won't erupt soon. 6 One of the world's biggest volcanoes has erupted 33 times since 1843. 7 The largest volcano in our solar system is on Mars. 8 Over the last 400 years, about 250,000 people have died as a consequence of volcanic eruptions.   

Great disasters of the modern world At 07:58:53 3 on 26th December 2004, a huge undersea earthquake happened in the Indian Ocean near the western coast of the Indonesian island of Sumatra. The earthquake created tsunamis which travelled quickly towards the coasts of several different countries, including Indonesia and Thailand to the east, Bangladesh to the north, and India, Sri Lanka and even the African countries of Kenya and Somalia to the west. Many of the coasts of these countries were hit by huge waves up to 15 metres high. Buildings and even complete villages were destroyed. Almost 300,000 people were killed. Many of the bodies were never found.  During the night of December 26th 2003, when most people were sleeping, the Iranian city of Barn was hit by an earthquake that measured 6.6 on the Richter scale. Most of the city was destroyed. Over 26,000 people lost their lives and more than 30,000 were hurt. The next day an international rescue operation began, but very few survivors were found. The most amazing rescue was that of 97-yearold Sharbanou Mazandarani. She was trapped under her collapsed home for eight days until she was found by rescue dogs. It took rescue workers three hours to free her.  Most of the locals on the Philippine island of Luzon did not even know they were living on the side of a volcano. Mount Pinatubo was covered by jungle. In March 1991, some small earthquakes were felt and scientists warned the volcano could erupt. The volcano activity became stronger in April and May and on June 3rd the first large explosion happened. 60,000 people were evacuated. On June 15th the volcano finally erupted. It sent ash and rocks 34 km into the air and the lava ran for 16 km. 300 people were killed, but luckily the evacuation saved thousands of lives.  The Indian Ocean disaster happened exactly a year after the Barn earthquake. T / F 2 The international rescue operation in Barn saved a lot of people. T / F 3 Sharbanou Mazandarani survived under her house for more than a week. T / F 4 The locals on Luzon always knew that they were living in danger. T / F 5 60,000 people on the island of Luzon had to leave their homes. 

What to do in an earthquake If you are indoors:  Stay inside so you don't get injured by falling glass or parts of buildings. Keep away from windows and from heavy furniture that might fall over. Get down onto the floor. Get underneath a strong desk, table or other piece of furniture. Hold on to it. If you are outdoors: Go to an open space. Keep away from buildings and power lines. If you are driving: Stop if you can and stay inside your car. Try not to stop below buildings or under trees and power lines.   Sally was getting breakfast ready when  . 2 She looked out of the window and saw  . 3 Just before the big earthquake happened, she  . 4 She shouted and some men came. They  . 5 Tom was on his way  . 6 He stopped his car and  . 7 He ran as fast as he could until he  . 8 When he came back to the car, .  

Castaway!  Chuck worked for a worldwide delivery company in the USA. It was his job to get the really important parcels to their addresses. He often had to travel many kilometres with these parcels across land and sea so he could safely deliver them to the places written on them.  One fateful night Chuck was travelling with parcels on one of the company's planes when disaster struck. The plane got caught in the middle of a huge tropical storm. There was nothing the pilot could do as the plane fell from the night sky into the ocean below. Chuck woke up. He was lying on a golden sandy beach. His body was covered in cuts and bruises. His clothes were wet and torn. For a while he remembered nothing, but then his memories came back. He remembered the plane hitting the water and breaking in two. He remembered seeing the island at night in the light of the flashes of lightning in the sky. He remembered swimming towards the island. He remembered how he was almost dying as he was climbing over the rocks. The first few hours were full of hope. He hoped maybe the pilot was also somewhere on the island. He hoped that a rescue party was on its way. He was happy to be alive. There were a few parcels from the plane on the beach. Chuck didn't open them. He still hoped to deliver them unopened one day. But as the hours turned into days, the hope slowly disappeared. When the dead body of the pilot washed up on the beach all he could do was bury his friend in the sand. There was no rescue plane coming. Chuck was on his own. Now he had to use all his energy to survive. He had to learn how to make fire. It took him days. When he finally saw some flames, he laughed with joy. He couldn't just survive on coconut water. He had to learn how to catch fish. It took him days and when he finally caught one he cried with happiness. He built himself a shelter from the rain, he built himself a bed from coconut tree leaves. He didn't want to die on this island and he did everything he could to survive. One day he decided to open the parcels. There was little in them - just clothes and a volleyball with 'Wilson' written on it. Chuck looked at the ball. Using ash from the fire he drew a mouth and two eyes on it. Now Chuck had a friend. His name was 'Wilson'. There was still one parcel left. 'Anna Bracebridge, Jacksonville, USA' the address on it said. Chuck was not sure why, but he decided to leave it unopened. As the years went by, Chuck got so used to the island that he knew it as well as he knew his hometown. And Chuck got used to 'having conversations' with Wilson. In his imagination, the volleyball wasn't a ball any more, he was a person. So Wilson heard all about Chuck's life back in the USA. He heard all of Chuck's dreams for the future. He shared Chuck's hopes when occasionally a ship passed by far away on the horizon. He shared his sadness as the ship disappeared. Then one day Chuck woke up and he knew he could stay on the island no longer. He had to get back home even if it killed him. From now on he spent every day building a raft from pieces of wood he found on the island. He took his time. After a few months he was finally happy with his work. He picked up 'Wilson' and placed him on the raft. He put the unopened parcel next to him. Chuck pushed the raft into the water and jumped on. Chuck had no idea where he was going. For days he saw nothing but water. He had food and drink with him, but soon there wasn't much of it left. The sun burnt on his skin. The waves made him feel sick. The sharks circling the raft made him feel scared. They were watching him with greedy eyes. Chuck didn't have much hope left. He feared his end was near. But the closer he was to death, the more Chuck wanted to live. He grew angry. He blamed Wilson for all his problems. He grabbed the ball and threw it far from the raft into the sea. As soon as Wilson hit the water, Chuck knew it was a mistake. He needed his friend. He wanted him back on the raft. But the ball just kept moving further from the raft. Chuck knew he couldn't jump into the water. He watched as his friend disappeared. He broke down in tears and lay down on the raft. The newspapers called it a miracle. "Man returns from the dead." "Home after eight years" the headlines read. They told the story of how a ship in the middle of the Pacific Ocean found Chuck on his raft. At first the captain thought he was dead but then he noticed that he was still alive. Over the next week Chuck grew stronger and stronger. Finally, when the ship reached land he was able to walk again. He flew back to the US by plane. A taxi was waiting for him at the airport to drive him to his parents' home. Under his arm was that parcel. He looked at the address on it. Jacksonville — it was less than 80 km away. He smiled. His parents could wait. 'Take me to Jacksonville first," he said to the taxi driver. Chuck was on the aeroplane for work. TI F 2 Chuck didn't know how he got to the island. T / F 3 At first Chuck thought he wouldn't be on the island for very long. T / F Complete the sentences with no more than 4 words. 4 Chuck wasn't  he didn't open the last parcel. 5 Sometimes Chuck saw ships in the distance but   . 6 Chuck used pieces of wood to build his raft. 7 What do you think happens next? 8 Why do you think Wilson was so important for Chuck? 9 How would you spend your time if you were a castaway? 


7.00-7.30 p.m.: Castaway Choices. Every week, Janice Jones asks a famous star to imagine spending a year on a small island. Guests are allowed to take four things with them that they really like. The guest in the studio this week is actor Tom Newman from The Bad and the Beautiful. Hello and welcome to Castaway Choices. Now, if anyone's never heard the programme before, the idea is very simple. Each week I invite a special guest into the studio. He or she has to imagine that they are going to spend a year alone on a desert island. Now, they're allowed to take a few things with them to make life easier, and those things are: a CD, a book, a film on DVD and one other thing which we call 'the special item'. This can be anything our guest wants. Today, my guest is actor Tom Newman, star of TV's most popular soap opera The bad and the beautiful. Tom, welcome to Desert Island Choices. Thank you. It's a pleasure to be here. So Tom, you're going to spend a year on your own on a desert island. How do you feel about that? I'm going to go crazy! I need People. Well, let's hope the things you choose will make your life a bit easier. Let's hope so. So let's start with a CD. What CD do you want to take? Only one — hmm, that's difficult. I love music. But I think if it's only one then it's got to be One, the collection of Beatles songs. Are you a big Beatles fan? Absolutely. I love them. They wrote such good songs. This is a great CD and I never get tired of it. It always makes me feel happy too. 0K, so what about a film? That's easy. I want to take Cast Away. The film with Tom Hanks on the desert island? That's an interesting choice. Why? Well, firstly it's got lots of practical advice on how to survive on the island. You know, how to start a fire, how to open a coconut, things like that. That's true. But also it'll help me stay positive about my future on the island. And because he escapes, I'm always going to believe that I can escape, too. What a good choice. What about your book? I'm going to take a dictionary. A dictionary? Yes, it's really interesting and I love learning new words. I'll have plenty of time to learn all of it. You're going to have a Tom great vocabulary when you return! Yes, I hope so. Presenter So finally what's your Tom 'special thing'? My cat — definitely. My cat always makes me feel at home.

My camping holiday was a disaster. B Why? A My tent was blown away by the wind. 2 B My flight to Italy was a disaster. A Why? B The flight was cancelled. 1 trip to the restaurant / food burn 2 picnic/ chased by bear 3 canoe trip / canoe hit a rock and sink 4 shopping trip/ wallet stolen  Huge rocks are thrown into the sky. Lava is sent down the sides of the mountain. More than 150,000 people were killed. She was trapped under her home for eight days. She was found by rescue dogs.  
