He's not very popular because he's a bit of a nerd. someone who is an outsider. 
I can't Play Football after School because I've got Detention. a Kind of School punishment when  Student has to stay behind after School.
Steve called Mrs Brown silly. He's really cheeky! a bit rude, but in a funny way.
You came home late again. You're grounded for a week. A Kind of punishment when your parents don't allow you to leave the house.
I hate Mr. Ward. He Always picks on me. Always choose the same Person to punish or hurt.

The Nerd Scene 1 In the school cafeteria   Bianca Don't look to your right! Tina Why? What is it? Bianca Tina Bianca Tina Bianca Tina Bianca Tina Bianca I said, don't look! Steve's looking at you. Is he? Really? Yeah. The cutest boy in the school and he' s checking you out! How do I look? Is my hair OK? You look great. You always do. (There is a noise.) What was t hat? What happened? Steve's such fun. He's just played a trick on the Nerd. Oh my god, is the Nerd here, too? Yeah, he was trying to get past the boys and Steve put out his leg and the Nerd tripped. It was so funny!  Oh, come on, Bianca, I have to look. (She turns around) Oh my god, look at that. But it's his own fault. If he wasn't such a nerd, t hey wouldn't pick on him all the time. Now look at him. His food's all over the floor! Serves him right.  Scene 2 In the classroom Teacher Tina, Bianca, will you be quiet-NOW! Bianca Of course, sir. Tina just wanted to borrow a pen. Teacher And is that a problem? Bianca No ... Teacher Then why do you need to talk about it for two minutes? (A few minutes later) Teacher Tina. I warned you. Two afternoons of detention. Tina But, sir ... Teacher I'm tired of warning you all the time. Tina But, sir, you said, "Be quiet." You didn't say anything about being silent. I was talking quietly. Teacher Thank you for explaining - and that makes three afternoons for being cheeky. Tina But ... Teacher Aren't three afternoons enough? Do you want more? Scene 3 In detention Christopher What are you doing here? I haven't seen you here before. Tina Sorry, I don't talk to nerds. Christopher Not even in detention? We're all the same here, you know. You'll get pretty lonely here if you don't speak to nerds. Tina I don't care. Anyway, I'm here by mistake. Christopher That's what everyone says. Why do you think I'm here? Tina I don't know and I don't care. But maybe it's because nobody likes you. Not even the teachers. Christopher Maybe. Tina So why are you here? Christopher So, you are interested. I'm here because I was reading poetry in the classroom. Tina I thought teachers liked that sort of thing. Christopher Well, Miss Bateman didn't like it when I read my poem out in the Maths lesson. Tina Christopher Tina Christopher Tina Teacher You read Batty Bateman a poem? You are weird. Well, I wanted her to stop picking on me. I thought it was the only way she'd listen to me. Did she? I think she did. That's why I'm here. Don't take it too hard. She picks on me, too. Hey, you two. You're here to write about why you think you deserve detention, not to talk about it. Christopher I've got nothing to write about, because I shouldn't be here. Tina Me neither. • Teacher OK, you've both got another detention, so you can think a bit harder.   Scene 4 In the street Bianca So how was detention yesterday? Tina So boring. And Miss Bond's so mean. She gave me more detention. Bianca Who else was there? Anyone I know? Tina Not really. Bianca You're going to miss the gang meeting today. Everyone's going. Tina What's it about? Bianca Tony's party. We're going to decide who wears what. Tina Well, I won't be going anyway. When Mum finds out about the detention, she'll ground me. Bianca Steve's going to be at the party, you know. Tina Yeah, I know. Isn't life great?  Scene 5 At home Mum You know the rule, Tina. I'm sorry, but you're not going to the party this weekend. It's the only way you'll ever learn. Tina That's OK, Mum, but it's not the party I want to go to. Mum It isn't? Well, what is it then? Tina Well, I met this boy Christopher in detention. And he's invited me to a poetry evening. Don't laugh. It's just a group of young people reading their poems. He'll be reading some of his, too. Mum Nice try, Tina, but I wasn't born yesterday. Tina It's true, Mum. He said he'd come and pick me up so you'd get to meet him first. Mum So who is this Christopher and why have I never heard of him? Tina Well, he's a bit of an outsider. We always thought he was a bit of a loser so no one ever talked to him. Mum Tina Mum Tina Mum Tina Mum Tina Mum And now he's part of your gang? Oh, no. The others don't know I want to go out with him. They wouldn't speak to me if they knew I was friends with him. So this is serious? Is he good-looking? It's not like that, Mum. He's good fun and he really listens when you talk to him. He's different from my other friends and I like that. But is he worth losing your other friends for? Well, that's my problem, Mum. Don't you see? It looks as if you've got to make a decision. Oh Mum, you're not helping. I don't want to make a decision. I want the gang and Christopher. If life were that easy, Tina, we'd be happy all year round.  Scene 6 At the cafeteria Bianca And I thought I was your friend. Why didn't you tell me? Tina I knew you wouldn't like it. Bianca Of course I wouldn't! How can you even talk to the Nerd? And how can you actually go out with him? Tina Listen, he's fun. We had a great time. Bianca But he's the Nerd. Tina That's so stupid! Bianca What? Are you saying that me and the gang are stupid? Tina What's the gang got to do with it? Bianca Well, I don't think you can be part of the gang if you go on seeing the Nerd. You have to decide, Tina - the gang or the Nerd. Tina Bianca, listen, we can all be friends, can't we? And I can be part of the gang and meet up with Christopher, can't I? You're seeing Daniel and the gang doesn't stop you. Bianca But that's Daniel and not the Nerd. Tina I told you - he's got a name and he's not a nerd! Bianca I think you're turning into a nerd, too. Anyway, think about it - but don't take forever.   Bianca thinks Steve's trick on the Nerd is funny. 2 Tina gets her first detentions for talking in class. 3 Tina meets Christopher in detention. 4 Tina won't be going to the party because D she's got a detention at the same time. D she hasn't got anything to wear to it. D her mum won't let her. 5 Tina's mum D isn't interested in Tina's problems. D doesn't believe Tina wants to go to a poetry evening at first. D isn't too angry about the detention. 6 Bianca tells Tina that D she can't be friends with the Nerd and be in the gang. D Daniel isn't really her boyfriend. D the gang is not stupid. 7 What do you think Tina should do? 8 Which character in the play do you like best? Why?  . 9 Which character in the play do you like least? Why? ems like a nice boy, your Christopher. Tina He's not MY Christopher, Dad, but yes, he's a nice boy. Mum And do the others still call him a nerd? Dad What's that? A nerd? Who? Christopher? And what others? Mum Well, her 'gang', you know. Bianca and these girls. Do they? Tina Oh, Mum. Stop asking these questions. Mum But you told me . Tina Forget it, Mum. Dad Come on, I'd like to hear about it. What about them? Do they really say that? Tina I don't know. Mum What do you mean, you don't know? It's your gang we're talking about. Tina Oh, Mum. Listen to yourself. My gang! Let them say what they like. I really don't care. We're not talking right now, anyway.


Dilemma 1 Imagine your older brother asked you to give him an alibi for last night. He asked you to tell your parents he was with you. What would you do? Dilemma 2 Imagine someone broke the classroom window when your teacher wasn't there. When she returned she asked you who it was. What would you do? Dilemma 3 Imagine you were walking down the street and you found a wallet on the ground. What would you do? I don't have a brother, but if I did, I'd want him to be my best friend. I think I'd do anything for him. If he asked me to give him an alibi, I'd definitely give him one. Of course, I'd want to know why he wanted one. I think he would have to at least ell me that. And if he didn't tell me why he wanted an alibi, I wouldn't give him one. Derek My brother would never ask me because he knows I would never give him one. If my parents asked me where he was, I'd tell them. Dilemma 2 Carla I'd hate it if this happened. What a terrible dilemma. If you told the teacher, the other students would hate you. If you didn't say anything, you'd probably get detention. I've no idea what I'd do. Derek I wouldn't say anything. If the teacher asked me what happened, I'd say that I didn't know. What could she do? It's not fair to put someone in that kind of situation. Dilemma 3 Carla I'd pick it up and have a look inside. If there was an ID card in the wallet, I'd find the owner and give it back. If there wasn't an ID card in the wallet, I'd take it to the police station. Derek If I needed the money, I'd keep it and leave the wallet on the ground. I'm only joking. I'd give it to the police or try and find the owner, if I could.  Carta says 3 Carla says  she would never give an alibi if it wasn't true. D she would definitely give her brother an alibi if he told her why. she would give her brother an alibi without knowing why 4 □ she's sure her brother would never ask her for an alibi.  Derek says he would give his brother an alibi if his parents told him to he would definitely not give his brother an alibi his brother would tell their parents to ask him for an alibi he would give his brother an alibi if he told him the truth  Carla says she would tell the teacher immediately she would find it difficult to know what to do she would tell the teacher after the lesson she would keep quiet  Derek says he would wait for the other kids to tell the teacher about the broken window he would not tell a teacher what had happened he would say he did it he would tell on the other person  Carla says she would keep it if there was no ID she would put the wallet back where she found it she would phone the person so he/she could pick it up she would give it back or take it to the police station  Derek says he would try to find the owner or give it to the police he would keep the money he would keep the money and drop the wallet in front of a police station he wouldn't pick it up.

How honest are you?  Imagine you were at a party. You took a picture off the wall to look at. You dropped it and it broke. Nobody saw you do it. What would you do?  I'd offer to fix it. b I'd put it back on the wall and hope nobody would notice. c I'd leave it on the floor and go back to the party.   Imagine you played in the school football team and the team was in the cup final. On the day of the game you woke up and your leg was hurting. What would you do? I'd want to play, so I wouldn't say anything. b I'd talk to the coach and ask for his advice. c I wouldn't play.  Imagine you got the 150€ you needed to buy a new bike. The same day your best friend phones you and asked if he could borrow 50€ because he owed it to his brother. What would you do?  I'd lend him the money and buy a cheaper bike. b I wouldn't give him the money. c I'd tell him to talk to his parents about the problem.  Imagine your friend had got a new boyfriend/girlfriend, but you knew that he/she was not a very nice person. What would you do?  I wouldn't say anything. b I'd tell him/her everything I know about him/her. c I'd stop being his/her friend.  Imagine you were having dinner at your friend's house and his mother gave you a plate with some vegetables that you really hate. What would you do? I'd tell her that I don't like them. b I'd leave them on the plate. c I'd hide them in my coat pockets. 



