Benefit concerts Playing for others. On January 12th 1918 a classical music concert took place in the Konzerthaus in Vienna. The money from the ticket sales went to help the families of the Austrian and Hungarian soldiers who died in the First World War. It was the first example of a benefit concert and showed that Music has the power to bring people together and make a difference. The Concert for Bangladesh. Of course the concert in Vienna was small and didn't make the news all over the world. In the 1960s, the popularity of pop music and television meant that musicians had a much bigger audience. Benefit concerts could get their messages to people all over the world. The first modern-day example took place on August l51 1971 when ex_:-Beatle George Harrison organised The Concert for Bangladesh. Harrison invited famous friends - musicians such as Bob Dylan, Ringo Starr and Ravi Shankar - to join him on stage at Madison Square Garden in New York. Money from the concert went to help refugees from East Pakistan. Harrison made a bestselling live album of the music and a documentary about the concert for cinemas all over the world. Live Aid. In 1985 Bob Geldof, singer of the Irish band The Boomtown Rats, saw a news report about the people starving in Ethiopia. He was shocked and wanted to do something to help. He decided to organise a benefit concert. With a few friends he started to make plans for a concert at Wembley Stadium in London. But his plans got bigger and bigger and he arranged for another concert on the same day at the JFK Stadium in Philadelphia. On July 13th 72,000 people in London and 100,000 in Philadelphia watched artists such as The Who, Queen, Paul McCartney, U2 and David Bowie sing on stage. Even more amazingly, 1.9 billion people in 150 different countries watched the concerts live on TV. One musician, Phil Collins, was so keen to do as much as he could that straight after his performance at Wembley he got on a plane and flew to the US so he could play in Philadelphia too. The Live Aid concerts and the hit single "Do They Know It's Christmas?" raised a total of $245 million. But maybe more importantly they made the whole world aware of the terrible situation in Eastern Africa.

America: A tribute to heroes.  On September 11th 2001, New York suffered a dreadful attack. Terrorists flew planes into the Twin Tower buildings killing more than 2,500 people. Only ten days after the tragedy, actor George Clooney organised a telethon, a TV concert, to raise money. People watched famous singers and actors on TV and then phoned in to donate money. The singers who came to perform included Bruce Springsteen, Sting, Celine Dion and Mariah Carey. Other famous actors and sports personalities such as Tom Hanks, Muhammad Ali, Cameron Diaz and Tom Cruise were there to speak and ask for money. Many of the Celebrities also helped answer the phones and take the donations. All the major TV stations showed the telethon without stopping for commercial breaks and the Show raised over $200 million. The money went to help the families of firefighters and policemen that died in the terrorist attacks.  Big and small. Benefit concerts don't need to be so big or have so many famous people to help out. Every year many smaller concerts take place in communities all over the world. Local bands and musicians use performances to bring People together and raise awareness of problems much closer to home. The power of music to make a difference is all around us. The concert in the Konzerthaus was free. T / F 2 There was a film about The Concert for Bangladesh. T / F 3 Bob Geldof originally planned one concert for Live Aid. T / F Choose the correct answer. 4 Phil Collins performed in both countries because D he promised his friend Bob Geldof. D he loves being on stage. D he wanted to do all he could to help. 5 The main reason the celebrities went to the telethon was D to help the victims of the terror attacks. D to answer the telephones. D to perform on stage. 6 The last paragraph suggests that benefit concerts D need famous people to make them successful. D can happen anywhere. D are great for local  musicians. Answer the questions. 7 What cause would you like to see supported by a benefit concert? 8 Why do you think famous people are happy to do benefit concerts? 9 In what other ways can music help people?

Talent shows like American Idol or the X-Factor have been very popular for years. They have produced singing stars like Kelly Clarkson and Jennifer Hudson in the US, and Ollie Murs, One Direction and Leona Lewis in Britain.
Ok,  Dave. That was really bad. Some people come here because they like singing. And some people come here for the show or the fun of it. I don't really know why you came here, Dave. Your voice is terrible and you can't be here for the singing. Maybe you think you look great in your suit, but I have to say you don't look like a pop star. Not at all. Not even like a fun version of a pop star. Dave, you're a brave man, but don't give up your real job — sing at home under the shower, when you're not wearing that suit — but don't waste our time, okay? You're never going to make it as a pop star. I'm  sorry Dave, but I agree with Paul. You're not going to be our next superstar. In fact, you're not even going to be a background singer in a band. You haven't got what it takes. But don't be too unhappy — you gave it a try, and that's what's important. I'm sure there are other things you can do much better. (singing for about 20 seconds — an 0K rendition of 'Grapevine') Jasmine. That was sensational! You have a beautiful voice and you look fantastic. Maybe you could move a little more when you're singing and not just stand there, but that's not really a problem. I think with the right training you could be a big star. We'll certainly get back to you. What do you think, Paul? Yeah, you're right, Sally. You really look great, Jasmine. Not over the top, a little bit like the girl next door. But your voice needs a little more training, I think. here's quite a lot of work ahead, but if you're willing to work hard, then I think what Sally says is true. You could be on the way up. We certainly want to talk to you after the audition. Thank you. "Dave, you're a brave man, but don't give up your real job. Sing at home under the shower, when you're not wearing that suit. But don't waste our time, OK? You're never going to make it as a pop star." "You're not going to be our next superstar. In fact, you're not even going to be a background singer in a band. You haven't got what it takes.  But don't be too unhappy. You gave it a try and that's what's important." "Maybe you could move a little more when you're singing and not just stand there. But that's not really a problem. I think with the right training you could be a big star. We'll certainly get back to you." "There's quite a lot of work ahead, but if you're willing to work hard, then I think what Sally says is true. You could be on the way up. We certainly want to talk to you after the audition.


What song do you like best? "Yesterday" by the Beatles. I like most of their stuff and that song is just great. It's one of my girlfriend's favourites, too. Do you like dancing? Not really, but if the song's good, then maybe I'll get up on the dance floor for a few minutes.  3 Where do you get your music? I buy CDs from my local music shop. I usually buy two or more a week. Yes, I'm a bit old-fashioned. 4 What's your favourite band? THe Rolling Stones. I know they're an old band but I think they're so cool. And they've written some great tunes. I met Mick Jagger last year. He's a top guy. Tell us about a song that is special for you. "Thinking out loud" by Ed Sheeran. THey played it when I first met my girlfriend. I asked her to dance. She said yes. I love that song. Ed Sheeran writes some great songs. 6 Where do you like listening to music? Anywhere, but I really enjoy listening to music in my car - especially if I'm in a traffic jam. It helps me relax. 7 What's the most important thing in a song for you? I like songs with a good tune. Something you can sing along to. I don't care about the lyrics. I never listen to them anyway.


Tom Hello! Kate Oh, hello. I didn't see you there. I hope I'm not making too much noise? Tom No, not at all. It was really good. Erm … Sounds sort of like Catfish and the Bottlemen? Did you write it? Kate Well, I'm just messing about, but thanks. I love Catfish and the Bottlemen. In fact, I just got their latest album. Tom Is it any good? Kate Well, I'm really enjoying it so far but then I think they're the best band around. Tom Me too. What did you think about their last one? Kate The Ride? I loved it. In my opinion it's the best they've done. Tom Do you think so? I mean, don't get me wrong, I really enjoyed it, but I still think The Balcony is their best. Kate Yeah, I know what you mean. There's something really special about it. Maybe because it's their first one, but I reckon they just keep getting better and better. How about you? Tom I couldn't agree more. I think they're going to be massive. Kate Well, I hope they don't get too popular. Bands always seem to get worse when they get too popular. Take Coldplay for example. I can't listen to their music any more. Tom Me neither. You know, it's funny to think that it was only four years ago that they were my favourite band. Sorry. I haven't introduced myself. I'm Tom. Kate And I'm Kate. I guess I'm your new next-door neighbour. We moved in yesterday. 1 Whose favourite band is Catfish and the Bottlemen? 2 Who has the new album by the band? 3 Who thinks The Ride is their best album? 4 Who thinks The Balcony is their best album? 5 Who doesn't like Coldplay? 6 Who is new to the area? 




