Crazy but true - the titanic disaster story. In 1898 the American author Morgan Robertson wrote a novel called Futility. It is about a huge ship on its first trip. where from the UK to America. In the story this 'unsinkable' ship hits an iceberg halfway across the ocean. It sinks and most of ist 2,500 passengers die. The name of this fictional ship? The Titan. Fourteen years later in real life the world's most famous ship, the Titanic, was also crossing the Atlantic when it hit an iceberg. Of the 2,200 passengers, only 705 survived. And there are more similarities between these two stories. Both ships were Crossing the ocean in the month of April and both boats had very few lifeboats. But the coincidences don't stop there. In 1935 another ship was crossing the Atlantic in April. This time it was travelling from Newcastle in England to Canada. As the ship got close to the area of the Titanic tragedy, a member of the Crew remembered the famous ship and called to the captain to stop. the ship finally stopped, it was metres away from a giant iceberg. All the crew were saved. And the name of that ship? The Titanian! Which of these ships were real? 2 How many passengers died in the Titanic disaster? 3 What coincidences between the Titan and the Titanic are there?  Why did a member of the Titanian crew ask the captain to stop the ship? Where was the Titanian going to in 1935? 6 How long after Robertson's book did the Titanian nearly hit an iceberg?

Live on Air. Our daily phone in Programme with Caroline Swindon. and welcome to Live on Air. Today our topic is 'coincidences". Can you tell us about a strange coincidence in your life? Then dial 219321 and let us know about it. Or maybe you've heard about a coincidence that happened to someone else. Again, pick up your phone, dial 219321 and tell us all about it! (ring tone) And we have our first caller on line l. Hello, this is Caroline Swindon and you're Live on Air. Hi , Caroline. This is Mark Sears from Manchester. Hello, Mark. Tell us your Story. Well, it was in August. I'm a pilot with British Airways. I was in a hotel in Paris and I was unpacking my suitcase and I opened the cupboard in the hotel room when I suddenly saw a bag with a laptop in it. I looked at it carefully and I discovered a piece of paper with the owner's name on it. To my surprise, the laptop belonged to a friend of mine, John Silver. He's also a pilot with British Airways. What a coincidence! Yes, but there's more. I wanted to take a photo of the laptop with my digital camera and send it to John in an email. But I couldn't find my camera. I was really angry. I couldn't remember where it was. Anyway, I was looking for the camera for twenty minutes when I decided to write John an email anyway. I opened my email and I saw that among my emails there was a message from John Silver. Of course, I read it immediately. He was in New York. He was staying at the Plaza Hotel, the one we always go to when we are in New York, you know. Well, anyway, while John was unpacking his suitcase, he opened the cupboard and there he found. Your camera! Yes, he did! He found my camera! What an incredible coincidence! Thank you very much, Mark. And if you have a story about a coincidence that happened to you or someone else, please call us at 219321 and you're Live on Air! (ring tone) Live on Air! Live on Air, hello. What's your story? Hi, Caroline. This is Annie Donovan from London. The story I have to tell didn't happen to me. But I read about it in a newspaper and I think it's really incredible. Go on, then. 0K, I read about this man in Detroit in the United States. He was walking down the street. He was going to work. And he was looking up at the sky. And suddenly he saw a baby. It fell off a balcony. The man caught the baby and saved it and it wasn't even hurt. What a story! But where's the coincidence? Well, exactly a year later, the man was going shopping with his wife. And when they were walking past the same house, the same baby fell off the balcony. And again he caught the baby and the baby was unhurt! What a coincidence! If you have a story to tell, phone us at 219321 and you're live on Air! Mark Sears opened the cupboard in a hotel room and he found a Laptop. The laptop belonged to 3 John was staying at a hotel in New York when he found Mark's camera. A man was walking down a street when a baby.5 The man caught the baby and the baby's life.  A year later he was walking down the same street 7 The man and his wife . 8 They were walking past the same house, when the fell off again. 


When the man in black looked around, he knew it was easy game for him. There were some people who were really careless. "How could they be so stupid?" he thought. There was a woman with a baby in her arms and she was talking on her mobile. And her handbag was half open. The man in black also saw that there was a man at the CD shop. He was listening to some music. He was wearing headphones and he had a big brown wallet in the back pocket of his shorts! Excellent! In two minutes I'm going to have a nice brown wallet with some money and some credit cards! Hey! My money! Help! What's the problem, sir? My wallet! Someone's stolen it! I had it in my pocket here and now it's gone. What shall I do? There's a Police Station just round the Corner, sir. Officer, please. I Need your help! What seems to be the Problem? I was in the Shopping mall. I was listening to some Music. I wanted to buy a CD. And suddenly somebody stole my wallet. Right. Can I have your Name, please? It's there! Pardon? My wallet. It's over there. On the table. THe Brown one. Well, I'm sorry sir, but that's my wallet. No, it's mine - it has my letters on it. James Taylor. I beg your pardon, sir? JT - on the wallet. The golden letters. It's my wallet. JT - it's my Name, on my wallet. My name's James taylor. My name's John Taylor. I don't believe you. This is my wallet. Can I look at it please? Sure. Have a look. it's my wallet. Look - I've got a photo of my wife in it! Stop it, please. This is my wallet because there's a photo of my wife! Hang on a Minute. Is your wife's Name Mary Jo? That's Right. But how do you know? Well, my wife's ame is Beth and Beth had a Twin sister. The twin sister! That's right. That's Mary Jo. Mary Jo and Beth were twin sisters. But they haven't seen each other for twenty years. They lost contact. So you're married to my wife's twin sister. This is incredible. What a coincidence. We must phone Beth and Mary Jo. What a coincidence. I can't believe it. The thief was watching the two boys and the woman with the mobile phone.2 He decided that he wanted to steal the woman's money.  Suddenly the woman noticed that her money was missing.  She went to the police station and saw a handbag on a policewoman's desk.  The mobile phone looked exactly like hers.  When the policeman opened the handbag, there was a photo of the woman's boyfriend.  The woman found out that her boyfriend was the policewoman's brother. 8 The policewoman phoned the brother up and told him the story of the coincidence. 

Talking to Belinda. It was a beautiful day. The sun was shining; some children were playing on the beach. Rick walked into the restaurant. "I'm sorry, sir," the waiter said when Rick entered the restaurant. "We're completely booked for tonight. There's not a single table free. But Maybe just a minute, please, sir" The young woman was sitting at a table near the window, but she didn't notice the beautiful sea in front of the window. She didn't see that there were lots of people lying on the beach enjoying the beautiful September sun. She didn't see the young People on their  surfboards, riding the Waves and having fun. She was reading with such interest that at first she didn't  even notice that the waiter was Talking to her. "I'm sorry?" she said to the waiter. She didn't seem very happy that he was interrupting her reading. "Could the young man over there sit at your table?" the waiter asked. "No way!" she thought. "Of course he  can," she said.  When Rick Cooper sat down at the young woman's table, he saw the book she was reading - Stories and Poems by Edgar Allan Poe. He knew the book well. But he didn't want to Interrupt the young woman because she was reading so intensely. When the Young woman's meal arrived, she put her book down on the table. "It's a great read, isn't it?" Rick said. "Yes, it is," Belinda answered. Five minutes later they were having a  conversation. They were talking about the people on the beach in front of the restaurant and they were watching the surfers and the waves. It was OK now for Belinda that Rick ("What a nice voice he has," Belinda thought was sitting at her table. And it was more than OK for her that Rick asked her for her phone number when she was leaving.  She took a piece of paper and a pen from her handbag. With a big smile she wrote her number on the paper and next to it she wrote in big letters CALL ME SOON! Belinda. Rick was so happy. "What a wonderful, wonderful girl," he thought. When he was on the subway, he took out the piece of paper. He looked at Belinda's note and he looked at the next to her phone number. "I'll call you. I'll call you sooner than you think," he thought. "I'll ring you up tonight. Maybe we can go to the movies tomorrow!" But Rick didn't phone Belinda that night. He didn't phone her the next night. And he didn't phone her two nights later. He couldn't phone Belinda because he had lost her phone number on the  subway on his way home. He was very sad and he went back to the restaurant to ask the waiter about Belinda.  "I'm sorry, sir," the waiter said. ''That was the only time I've seen her here! But I'm sure she'll come back. And then I'll let you know!" Rick phoned the restaurant every evening for more than two months. But Belinda never came back to the restaurant. Rick also went to all the bookshops he could think of. He was looking for a young woman who had an interest in books by Edgar Allan Poe. But Rick never found her. "How can I find her?" he thought. "There are 14 million people in Los Angeles. There's no chance of seeing her again!"  A year later, Rick Cooper went to Europe for a year. He wanted to learn languages and he wanted to visit other countries. His first stay was in Paris. Rick loved the city. He loved the language and he loved the people. He took a course at one of the language schools and he learnt French quite fast. Whenever he had time, he walked through the streets of Paris. He was happy there. He had lots of friends and there were so many great places to go! One of his favourites was a cafe near the river Seine. He loved to sit there for hours, watching the people walk by. Another place he liked were the bookstalls along the Seine. He often went there to look at the second-hand books. "I know this book!" Rick Cooper thought. And when his hand touched the copy of Stories and Poems on the table in front of the bookshop, he remembered the young woman from the restaurant. He thought of the lost piece of paper with the phone number on it and felt sad. He picked up the book and opened it. He couldn't believe what he saw. There was a sticker in it with her name, Belinda Gray, and an LA. address! "Belinda Gray! How did this book get from L.A. to Paris?" Rick thought. Rick bought the book and went home. He found a phone number for the address. His fingers were trembling when he dialled the phone number. A woman answered the phone. "Belinda?" he said. "I'm sorry," the woman answered. ''This isn't Belinda. Who's speaking?" "This is Rick Cooper. I'm a friend of Belinda's. Can I talk to her, please?" Rick asked. "I'm sorry, no. She moved out two months ago. But I can give you her new phone number!" Rick wrote the number down: 0033 1 47 09 85 72. "But that's a strange number. It's not an L.A. number!" he said. "It's not even a number in the US." "That's right," the woman said. "Belinda moved to Paris two months ago!" The waiter took Rick to sit next toBelinda. 2 Rick started talking to Belinda about the book. 3 Rick had a plan. He thought maybe he could take Belinda out for dinner. 4 Rick found the first few months in Paris quite hard. T / F 5 Rick felt happy when he saw the copy of Stories and Poems in t he Parisian bookshop. T / F 6 As he phoned the number in the book Rick felt nervous. T / F Answer the questions. 7 What do you think Belinda thought when Rick didn't phone her? .  How do you think the story ends? 9 What's the strangest thing that has happened to you?

One day, Rick Cooper went to a restaurant, but there were no free tables. The waiter showed him to a t able where a Young woman was sitting. It was a beautiful day and there were lots of windsurfers on the sea in front of the restaurant. Rick noticed that the woman was reading a book by Edgar Allan Poe. The woman's name was Belinda. Rick and Belinda started to talk and Rick asked her for her phone number. She wrote it down on a little piece of paper. Rick lost the paper and never phoned Belinda. A year later Rick moved to Paris. He liked the city a lot. One of his favourite places was a cafe near the river Seine. One day, when he was looking at some books at the bookstalls, he saw a copy of Stories and Poems. He was surprised to see Belinda's name and an address in t he book. He found the phone number and made a call. "Belinda does not live here any more," a woman told him. "She has moved to Paris" 

The coincidence. I saw her at the bus stop. She looked a lot like me. I asked her, "Have we ever met?" We went to have some tea. She said, "My name is Deborah." I said, "That's my name, too." She said, "I am from  Chichester, but tell me more of you." We talked and talked and soon found out that so much was the same: our date of birth, our favourite film, and both our pet dogs' names. "It's time to go. Goodbye," she said. She walked out through the door. And me? I am still sitting here, just looking at the floor. 







Talking to Belinda. 
