James Holman: The Record Traveller. "He has eyes in his mouth, eyes in his nose, eyes in his ears, and eyes in his mind." James Holman lived more than a hundred and fifty years ago during his lifetime, he travelled more than 400,000 km - further than anyone before him. And in those days travelling long distances was hard, even for fit people. James Holman wasn't fit. In fact he was blind, and he suffered from rheumatism. He had so much pain that it was often difficult for him to get out of bed in the morning. But even on days when he suffered very badly, James grabbed his Walking stick and started to move, in spite of his pain. Born in Exeter in the south of England in 1786, James was a healthy boy with perfect eyesight*, and it was his dream to see the world. At the age of twelve, he joined the Royal Navy. Soon he found himself working extremely hard on board a ship sailing across the Atlantic towards the coast of Canada. Life at sea was brutal. The freezing, wet weather had a very bad effect on his health. He started to feel terrible pains in his bones. His feet hurt so badly that walking became difficult for him. He stayed in the Royal Navy until 1810 when they sent him back to England. He was a cripple. But things got worse. By the time he was 25, Holman was not only unable to walk, he was completely blind too. In the early nineteenth century blind People had extremely hard lives. Medical treatment* was poor. Most of them didn't have jobs. They usually ended up in the streets, begging* for money. Not Holman. He got himself a metal walking stick. Listening carefully to the tap-tap-tap that came from the stick, he started to explore the streets of London, all alone. He was blind, but he learnt to 'see' using his ears. A few years later, Nothing could stop him any more. His first journey took him to France. The roads were awful and coaches were over-crowded with people. Holman didn't speak a word of French. Nobody spoke English. The blind man was all alone - but starting to travel was the best decision in Holman's life! His health improved. He felt great. He was becoming a man of adventure. Holman became very good at finding his way around strange cities, tap-tap-tapping his way, noticing the sounds and smells of town squares and market places. People asked him how a blind man could enjoy sightseeing. He said, "Being  blind doesn't stop me from enjoying travelling. It makes me more curious. I take my time to explore everything deeply, using all my other senses." His next trip was to Italy. He became the first blind person to reach the top of Mount Vesuvius - an active volcano at that time. Back in England, Holman started to write. Two of his books became very successful and he became famous. Now he could set out on a journey around the world.  The adventures of the blind man were amazing. In Brazil he accepted an invitation to a gold mine. In South Africa he taught himself to ride a horse and went off into the wild with a young African who didn't speak English. In Ceylon he took blind doesn't stop me from enjoying travelling. It makes me more curious. I take my time to explore everything deeply, using all my other senses." His next trip was to Italy. He became the first blind person to reach the top of Mount Vesuvius - an active volcano at that time. Back in England, Holman started to write. Two of his books became very successful and he became famous. Now he could set out on a journey around the world. In Ceylon he took part in an elephant hunt. He crossed Zanzibar and Tasmania on foot. And in China a swarm of wasps* attacked him - a very Painful experience. But he never gave up. He lived his big dream - his dream to 'see' the world.  James used a metal walking stick to help him walk. 2 James joined the navy because he wanted to travel the world. 3 Life was extremely hard for disabled people in the nineteenth century. 4 Holman found his first journey to France D very difficult  helped him feel better  lonely. 5 Holman said his blindness D helped him meet new people. D made him want to know more about the world. D made sightseeing more enjoyable. 6 Holman used the money from his books to help D him travel further than Europe. D him live more comfortably. D others with disabilities. 7 What do you think he found most difficult about his travels? 8 Why do you think people were so interested in travellers in those days? 9 How is travelling easier these days for people with disabilities? 

Mary Kingsley: A Victorian Lady in Africa. Mary Kingsley was born in North London in 1862. When she was a girl, her mother became quite ill, and her father was never at home. So Mary had to look after her mother and had Little time to go to school. But while looking after her mother she studied physics, chemistry, biology and maths on her own. She learned Latin and German too. Mary had a big dream. She wanted to see the world. She wanted to be an explorer. She wanted to travel to Africa. When both her parents died in 1891, she saw an opportunity to start travelling. That was not easy because in the 19th century women did not usually travel alone. But that didn't stop Mary Kingsley. She began to make her Dream come true and set out to Africa all on her own. Mary made two long African journeys, one in 1893 and one in 1895. There are many wild stories About her travels. On her first journey she went to Angola, Congo, Cameroon and Nigeria. She lived with the people in their huts and she ate their food. And Mary always dressed in black from head to toe. In the middle of the wilderness she looked like a Lady going to a tea party! She collected rare* fish for the British Museum, and she had quite a few dangerous adventures. Once while she was resting in her tent, she heard a noise outside; it was a leopard. She threw a water jug at it and it ran away. And when some hippos blocked her way, she hit them with her umbrella. The most famous adventure is probably when a crocodile tried to climb into her boat, and she hit it with  her paddle so it gave up and went back into the water. In 1895 she went where no white woman had ever been before. She went to see the Fang people who were cannibals. First she took a steamboat up the Ogooue River, and then she went alone on foot. The Fang turned out to be quite friendly, even though one night Mary found a bag with a human hand, three big toes, four eyes, and two ears in her tent. She finished her second adventure by  climbing Mount Cameroon (4,040 metres} alone, because the men with her were too weak to get to the top. After her travels, Mary wrote two bestsellers (Travels in West Africa and West African Studies), and back in England she gave many lectures and interviews. There she criticised the Europeans, especially the missionaries, for destroying so much of the African culture, which, she said, had its own rules. Mary returned to Africa (to South Africa actually) just before the Second Boer War broke out in 1899. She worked in a hospital that was full of typhoid* patients. She got typhoid and died on June 3rd, 1900. She is still seen as one of the great female explorers of the 19th century. Mary's father didn't spend much time in the house. 2 Mary started travelling after her parents' deaths. 3 Mary didn't like to meet the local people when she travelled. Complete the sentences with no more than 4 words. 4 Mary wasn't scared of  and chased them away.5 Mary was the first white woman to meet the Fang people. 6 Mary wasn't happy with what European missionaries were doing in Africa. Why do you think Victorian women didn't travel much? Which of her adventures do you think was the most amazing? How should we behave in foreign countries? 

About to go on a great journey. Lara and Kevin Seymour, James, 14 and Jessica, 13  Where are you going? To Nepal, for 24 days, walking in the Himalaya mountains. Why? James and Jessica think it's great that they can do something completely different from their normal school life. Lara and I have always wanted to go to Nepal. What do you want from this holiday? Lara wants to meet other people from around the world. I love flights on small planes. We're all looking forward to being together for almost four weeks. What are you looking forward to most? The scenery. Seeing the Himalaya mountains. Sleeping in tents. What are you most worried about? Some people suffer from altitude sickness when they're at 3,000 metres and above. We hope we can go up to almost 5,000 metres! 

Anna Miles and her daughter Christine, 13. Where are you going? To Orlando in Florida for a week, to see Disney World. Why? Friends of ours have been there and they came back and told us it was great fun! What do you want from this holiday? A few days of fun. We want to get away from our place for a while and just relax. And Christine wants to go to the Superstars Studios and record her own song! What are you looking forward to most? To Disney World of course. But there's one other thing. We're going to hire a car and drive up to Wakulla Springs for a day or two. It's a nature park near Florida's capital city, Tallahassee. We want to get close to alligators! There are lots of them there. We're looking forward to the boat trip. Of course, you can't go without a guide. What are you most worried about? It's the kind of holiday that you don't worry much about. Well, there's one thing I'm a little worried about: driving on the wrong side of the road. 

Hire a car. Be with each other. Suffer from altitude sickness. Go up to 5,000 metres. Sleep in tents. Take a trip. Talk to each other. Meet other people. Get away from our place. Get close to Alligators

Minnie is a pilot. Every day she flies from London Gatwick to Munich and back. One. She gets on the plane at 6.50 a.m., half an hour before the passengers. Two. She drives home. She gets out of the car at about 5 p.m. Three. She gets into her car. Four. The journey takes about an hour and a half. The plane lands at about 9 a.m. Five. The plane takes off at 7.30 a.m. Six. After a rest in Munich she flies back. She gets off the plane at about 3 p.m. Seven. She gets to the airport at about 6.10 a.m. Eight. Minnie sets off for work at about 5.30 a.m.

My best trip ever. A riding holiday by Eileen Cooper. My best trip ever was to Ireland. I spent a week on a horse. farm on the west coast last year. I was a bit afraid at first, but the people on the farm were very nice. And I soon made friends. There were six girls and two boys on holiday there, all of them quite good riders. On the first day the owner of the farm showed me 'my' horse called Wendy. The week was fun, but hard work, too. Up at six, breakfast, saddling up the horses. Then we walked the horses for half an hour to warm them up. And then the first highlight of the day: the morning ride along the endless beach. There was never anyone there, so we could gallop as much as we wanted. We even had races, but I only won once. Then we went back to the farm to care for the horses. In the afternoons, we rode across the fields. It rained on two days, but for the rest of the holidays we were lucky with the weather. There's nothing cooler than riding through the fields or along the beach on a beautiful day. 
Camping in Scotland by Peter Harris. My best trip ever was to Glencoe in Scotland. It's got the best climbing in Britain. It's world class and a fantastic place. The view of the mountains is just wonderful. I stayed at a campsite with ten other boys. We were all there on a week's course, learning to climb. We had to do everything ourselves: putting up the tents, cooking our own food, cleaning our stuff and so on. Our two guides were Fergus and Donald, two really experienced climbers. The first two days we just learned how to use the gear, but on the third day we climbed a cliff. It wasn't a very high one, only about five metres, but when you look down a cliff from a height of just five metres, you feel a bit funny in your stomach. Every day we did a longer climb and soon we weren't so scared any more because we'd learned such a lot from our guides. On the last day we climbed Rannoch Wall. We had to walk up to the rock face first and then the climb started. We went on the most famous route, on the face called Agag's Groove which is 99 metres long. It took us two hours to get to the top and we needed a lot of help from Fergus and Donald. When I got to the top, I felt wonderful. Fortunately we didn't have to climb back down. We took another route, an easier one. We were all so tired after that week, but I would love to do it all again. 

Yes, can I help you? We missed our flight to New York. Can I see your tickets, please? (Pause) I see. Well, I can put you on the 3 o'clock fl ight, but there's a charge. How much? It's £90 per person, I'm afraid.  OK. And please note that check-in is two hours before departure. Thanks. Can I help you? Yes. I want to make a reservation for a sleeping compartment on the 8 p.m. train to Glasgow. How many people, sir? Two. One moment, please. I'll see what we've got.

One of my worst journeys was from Germany to Italy by train in the winter. I'd made a reservation for a single sleeping compartment. I wanted a good night's sleep because I had an important meeting in Milan the next day. After an hour on the train my compartment was still cold. I talked to the attendant, but he couldn't do anything about it. It got colder and colder and when we got to Austria it was freezing! I tried to get another compartment, but I couldn't because they were all full and the heating wasn't working in most of the others, either. I got three blankets and I put on my winter coat and tried to sleep, but it was so cold I really couldn't. Two hours before we got to Milan the heating started to work. It was too late. It was terrible, but at least I got the money back for my ticket.
I remember a really long journey to the United States with my husband and my daughter. We were flying from London to Orlando. It wasn't a direct flight and we had to make a stop in Atlanta. First, our flight from London was delayed by an hour. In Atlanta, we had to wait for more than an hour at the passport control, so we missed the flight to Orlando. We went to  the help desk and learned that there were no more direct flights to Orlando that day. I was really angry. Finally, we got a flight to Cincinnati. We had to wait there for another hour before we got a flight to Orlando. We got there in the middle of the night, after nearly 22 hours on planes and in airports.
My worst trip was a boat trip three years ago. We were on holiday on a Greek island. On the last day we had to take a boat in the afternoon back to Piraeus, the big port. We were still on the island, when suddenly the weather changed. There was a lot of wind and there were really high waves. First we heard that the boat wasn't going to leave because of the waves. We were very worried that we might miss our plane back to London. We finally left three hours late. The trip was terrible. Almost everybody on the boat was sick. Imagine the terrible smell! When we finally got to Piraeus, everyone's face was white. I don't know how we survived the bus ride to the airport in Athens. The only thing I remember was that I couldn't eat a thing on the plane. 






