Cute but deadly. Not all animals are as lovely as they look. Here are some that you probably don't want to get too close to. THE slow loris. Among the trees in the forests of South East Asia you might find a slow loris. It's the cutest animal in the world. Just look at those big eyes. But be careful. This creature produces a poison to protect its young. One bite from this cutie can cause a lot of pain and could even kill you. Pfeffer's flamboyant cuttlefish. This stunning 8 cm creature looks like something from another world. But it isn't. It's found in the Oceans around Australia. This cuttlefish is definitely one sea creature you don't want to pick up. Ist Poison is as deadly as the blue-ringed octopus. The leopard seal. Everyone loves a baby seal. They're soft and white and furry. But their parents are not as adorable. In the sea an adult leopard seal is as dangerous as a Killer whale. They attack penguins, large fish and even humans. This is one animal you don't want to go for a swim with. The poison dart frog. These tiny frogs come in an amazing variety of colours: yellows, reds, blues, greens and oranges. But these colours are a warning. As their name suggests, these frogs are very poisonous, so don't drink water they swim in. It could make you very ill. The swan. Swans are commonly found on lakes and rivers in many countries. They are one of the most elegant of all birds, but they are also more dangerous than other birds. When they are nesting swans are often very aggressive. They attack anyone who gets close to their chicks and don't stop until they are sure their young are safe. The Siberian chipmunk. What could be so dangerous about this cuddly mammal from North America and Asia? Chipmunks really are sweet, and they aren't aggressive at all. The worst thing they might do to you is try and take a sandwich from your picnic. But they are famous for spreading diseases like rabies. And for this reason, it's best to stay away from them. 
Have you seen Dave's new lizard? Yes, I have. What did you think of it? I thought it was really cute. Cute! Are you crazy? It tried to bite my finger off. It's the most aggressive pet ever. Have you seen Jade's new dog Fido? No, I haven't. What's it like? It's really cute. In fact it's the cutest dog I've ever seen. Really? But her last dog Spike was cute. He was really furry and cuddly. I know but Fido's cuter than Spike. He's adorable. Have you seen Brian's pet spider? I have. I thought it was really cool. It is pretty cool, but it's not as cool as his snake. I don't agree. I think it's cooler than his snake.


Brave Bethany back on board. It was early in the morning on Halloween. Bethany Hamilton and her mother arrived at Cannons Beach, Hawaii, looking for a good place to surf. The waves were small. Her mother thought they should go back but Bethany wanted to stay. Then her best friend Alana Blanchard arrived with her 15-year-old brother Byron and their dad, Holt. Bethany stayed with her friends. Bethany needed all the practice she could get because she wanted to be a professional surfer one day. Her family also believed in her. They were saving money to help her dream come true. The kids ran to Tunnels Beach. They hoped to find better Waves there. Just before Bethany jumped in the water, she looked at her watch. It was 6.40 a.m. The sea was still as calm as a Swimming pool. Bethany lay on her surfboard moving with the small waves. She was waiting for bigger waves. Her left arm was in the water. Then it happened. A 3-metre tiger Shark bit through her arm and through her surfboard. Then it was gone. Bethany watched in horror as the water around her turned bright red. She looked at her arm, but it wasn't there. Bethany didn't panic. In a loud but calm voice she told her Friends about the shark. Holt took control. He sent Byron off to call 911 and began to push Bethany on her board back to the beach. It was about 400 metres away. Bethany was bleeding badly. Holt wrapped his shirt around the wound. They got to the beach. There were already several people there. One of them, Paul Wheeler, helped control the bleeding and keep Bethany calm. After what seemed like hours, the ambulance finally arrived and took her to hospital. Bethany needed two operations. When she left the hospital, the doctor told her to stay out of the water for four weeks. Bethany thought she would never surf again. But then after a few days, she started to dream about going back to surfing. The local people were great. In her first weeks at home, People were always there to help her and her family. They called around with meals and flowers. A few weeks after the attack there was an event at a hotel in Lihue. The people collected $75,000 for Bethany. An organization called Save Our Seas contacted her. They offered her the chance to train to be an ocean photographer. She thought about it. It was an interesting offer, but there was still one thing she had to do. The day before Thanksgiving, Bethany went to the beach with her family and a group of friends. Under her right arm was a surfboard. Alana and Bethany walked into the water, just like on Halloween. The waves were good and Bethany used her one arm to take her out to the action. She tried one wave, but it didn't work. Neither did the next or next. But then it happened. A wave picked her up. She put her hand on her surfboard and pushed. Suddenly she was standing on the board surfing. Back on the beach she heard a huge cheer. Of course, Bethany is still scared of meeting another Shark when she's in the sea. Her heart beats faster every time she sees something dark in the water. And she still has nightmares. But this doesn't stop her going in the sea. Bethany's mother wanted to go home because 0 the sea wasn't good for surfing. D they couldn't find a good place to surf. 0 Bethany didn't need to practise any more.  When the shark bit Bethany 0 she started screaming. 0 she called to her friends. D she fell off her surfboard. Her friend's dad called the emergency services. D got Bethany back to the beach. 0 took her to hospital. People from her town raised Money for Bethany. T/F 5 Bethany wasn't interested in being an ocean photographer. T/F 6 Bethany has no fear when she is in the sea now. T/F 7 How do you think Bethany felt immediately after the attack? 8 Why did Bethany think she had to get back in the sea? 9 How do you think she felt when she first got back on her surfboard? 

ell, the big news this weekend is, of course, the shark attack off Venice Beach and I'm joined in the studio today by Gillian Hitchcock. Gillian is a scientist with the Californian Shark Institute and she is here to tell us the truth about shark attacks. Welcome to the show, Gillian. Thank you. Now Gillian, is it safe to go into the sea? Well, yes, but people should take care. I would advise against surfing or swimming out too far for now until we know a bit more about this shark. So is this shark going to attack again? Probably not, but it's good to be careful. Of course, everyone's in such a panic after this attack. And I wouldn't like to be a shark off the coast of California at the moment. But are sharks really all that bad? No, of course they're not. For a start, there are 350 species of shark in the world and only 32 of these have ever been in attacks against humans. However, some of these can be very dangerous. For example? Well, the three most dangerous sharks for humans are the bull shark, the tiger shark and, of course, everyone's greatest fear, the great white shark. Why does everyone fear the great white shark so much? Well, the film Jaws didn't help, but the main reason is because of its size. I mean this fish can grow up to 7 m in length. That's the length of two cars! And then there is that famous mouth with all those teeth — up to 3,000 of them. It's a frightening sight. It certainly is. But does it kill many people? Yes, I suppose it does. But not so much here in California. Although we do have quite a lot of great white attacks, they only kill one person every eight years on average. The thing about great whites is that they usually kill their victims by making them bleed to death. They'll take a big bite and then watch while the victim bleeds to death before returning to eat. So water an attack you have a good chance of surviving when you can get help quickly. That's good to know. And another thing about them is that after a big meal, they might not need to feed again for up to two months. This means they probably won't stay around in one area for too long. So why do sharks attack us? Sharks attack for two reasons: to get food and to defend their territory. And most of the attacks by hungry sharks are because of mistaken identity. They mistake us for seals or sea lions. Why does that happen? Well, from below, the shape of a swimmer or someone snorkelling can look like one of these animals to a shark. That's why these people are in more danger than a scuba diver, for example. Sharks don't often attack under water. Of course, the safest place is out of the water and that's where I'll be for a while, I think. Gillian, thank you for your time. I've learned a lot. Thank you, and don't be too scared to go in the water.

The truth about Shark Attacks. Gillian is a news reporter. a scientist who knows the truth about sea life. a scientist with the Californian Shark Institute. Gillian advises against, holidaying on the Californian coast, swimming and surfing out too far at the moment, letting kids play too close to the water. Gillian says that most of the sharks we know don't attack humans, only 32 of the 350 species of shark in the world are very dangerous, there have been 350 shark attacks so far. Gillian explains that the most-feared shark is the bull shark, the great white shark, the tiger shark. The great white shark kills by quickly biting off big bite after big bite, letting people bleed to death, biting off the legs first and then the head. Sharks kill to feed themselves and their families, when you swim into their territoy in daylight, to get food or to defend their territory. Sharks also attack humans because it is in their nature, because of the noise humans make, because they mistake them for seals or sea lions. GIllian explains that sharks usually attack under water, swimmers and people snorkelling are in more danger than scuba divers, slow swimmers are in more danger than fast swimmers. People snorkelling are in greater danger, Seals and sea lions - the great white's favourite food.

The crocodile. Oh, she sailed away on a fine and sunny day on the back of a crocodile. "You see," said she, "he's as tame as tame can be. I'll ride him down the Nile."  The croc winked his eye as the lady waved goodbye, wearing a great big smile. But at the end of the ride, the lady was inside and the smile was on the crocodile! 


A UFO crashes into a quiet forest in America. Radiation from the spaceship turns a family of rabbits into 1O-metre-high monsters. They're hungry and they don't want grass and flowers any more! Soon people start disappearing in the forest. A local science teacher and her policeman boyfriend are the only people who can save the town. But then the aliens from Mars appear. They want their UFO back and they're not very happy! This is a great film. It's very funny and has some scary moments, too. It's good fun for all the family. 




