Walking through London. The Thames. Length - 5 km. Time needed - 6-7 Hours.  One of the best ways to see many of London's most celebrated sights is to take a walk along the banks of its river - the Thames. But it's not just about the famous buildings, a walk by the river brings you closer to the people who make London such a fascinating city. Start your walk at the Houses of Parliament (nearest tube station Westminster). This is one of the most photographed places in London. It is where the British government meets, but it's also open to visitors. At the end of the Parliament buildings is the famous clock tower. Its 98 m tall. Many people think it's called Big Ben, but they are wrong. Big Ben is actually the name of the clock's great bell and not the tower. Cross over the River Thames at Westminster Bridge. Don't forget to look back for  great view of the Houses of Parliament and Big Ben! On the other side of the river, walk down the steps and along the river to the London Aquarium. Here you can see sharks, fish and all kinds of other sea creatures. Next door to the Aquarium is the London Dungeon. If you are Feeling brave then go inside and enjoy the history of horror in the city. There are 18 shows, 20 actors and three rides which bring the dark side of London to life, including the Great Fire of London and Jack the Ripper. Not far from the dungeon is one of London's more modern attractions, the London Eye. It opened on December 31, 1999 and for this reason it is also called the Millennium Wheel. The 25-minute ride on the wheel gives you some of the best views of London you can get. If you want to avoid* the long queues - book in advance.  Fascinating fact: The clock hands are 2.7 and 4.3 metres long. Fascinating fact: Jack the Ripper probably killed 18 people, but was never caught. Among the suspects were many people, including members of the Royal Family, a Lord, and Lewis Carroll (author of Alice in Wonderland). Fascinating fact: The London Eye has 32 capsules and can carry up to 800 people. More than 3.5 million visitors take a ride on the wheel each year. From the London Eye walk on, past the street artists and galleries, past the National Theatre, until you get to Tate Modern. This was an old power station* and is now an art gallery whose collection of modern art is one of the best in the world. It was opened in 2000 and every year around five million people visit the gallery. From the top of the building there's a great view of the Millennium Bridge and St Paul's Cathedral.  Fascinating fact: In 2016 the museum added a new futuristic building. More than 143,000 visitors came to see it on the day it opened - a record number of visitors!The next building of interest is the Globe Theatre. Back in the early 1600s, there was a round theatre here, where Shakespeare acted. The old theatre burned down, but now there's a new Globe Theatre which Looks almost the same as the old one. Today you can watch Shakespeare's Plays at the Globe but bring on umbrella; the Globe does not have a roof. Fascinating fact: THe original Globe Theatre had 3,000 seats, but people could also watch a play standing on the floor of the theatre. That cost only a penny! Continue your way towards Tower Bridge. On the left is a famous battleship, the HMS Belfast, which fought in the Second World War. Tower Bridge is one of the oldest bridges in London. It is a drawbridge, so when a big ship comes up the Thomes, they raise the bridge so that the ship con go through. On the other side of the river is the Tower of London and this is where your walk ends. It was built in 1078 as a castle, then it was a prison, and now it is a museum. Check out the Beefeoters whose job is to protect the Queen's Crown Jewels. Look out also for the ravens. These big black birds have always lived at the Tower.  Fascinating fact: In 1952, the bridge began to open whiel a bus was still on it. The driver went as fast as he could and jumped a small, three-foot gap. He got 10 for his bravery. Fascinating fact: There is a legend that when the ravens leave the Tower of London, it will be the end of the Royal Family and the British Isles. Tourists can't go into the Houses of Parliament. T / F 2 Some people find t he London Dungeon scary. T / F 3 You may have to wait for a long time to go on the London Eye. T / F Complete the sentences with no more than 4 words. 4 People can watch a Play at the new Globe Theatre. There aren't many bridges in London that are as  Tower Bridge. 6 The Tower of London was originally 7 Where do you think you would find this text? 8 Which of the attractions would you like to see most and why? 9 Which of the fascinating facts is most interesting?

a street
a bridge
a square
a tower
a building
a river
a museum/ an art gallery
a shop / shopping centre
a park
a district 
 

The Great Fire of London. In the 17th century, London was a city of narrow streets and wooden houses. On the evening of Sunday September 2nd, 1666, a fire began in a house near London Bridge. The wind was strong and the fire grew and grew. It went on during Monday and Tuesday. A famous writer called Samuel Pepys was living in London at that time. He wrote in his diary: I went out, and walked to the Tower. There I saw all the houses at the end of the bridge on fire. The people of the Tower told me that the fire started in the King's baker's house in Pudding Lane. It has already burned down a church and most of Fish Street. Everybody is trying to move their things, or throwing them into the river or taking them to boats.  On Wednesday, the fire got weaker and on Thursday 6th September, it stopped completely. In those four days, the fire destroyed old St. Paul's Cathedral, 87 other churches and About 13,000 houses - about 80% of the city at that time. But amazingly, only about 15 people died. King Charles II decided to build London again, with wider Streets and houses built of brick, not wood. One of the men who rebuilt the city was Christopher Wren, a great architect. His most famous Building was the new St. Paul's Cathedral, which is still there today. Near St. Paul's, you can also see the Monument, a column built in the 1670s to remember the Great Fire. It is very close to the place where the fire began.  In 1666, streets in London were not wide. T/F 2 The fire began in a church. 3 Samuel Pepys was a writer. 4 Some people threw their things into the river. T/F 5 The fire stopped on Wednesday. TI F 6 About 80% of the people in London died. TI F 7 Christopher Wren designed the new St Paul's Cathedral. T/F 8 The Monument is in St Paul's Cathedral. 



Your top 5 places in London. 1. Madame Tussauds. Madame Tussauds has been a popular tourist attraction for many years and the queues outside it these days are as long as they have Always been. People go there to see the waxworks of famous people; kings and queens alongside Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston. And at the interactive attractions you can score a goal while David Beckham watches or you can sing and dance on stage with Beyonce. "I loved it! There's a fantastic Chamber of Horrors that is REALLY scary. But my favourite was the Marvel 4D Experience. The Marvel Super Heroes battle it out to save London!" Alan, 14. 2 Covent Garden. Until the 1970s, Covent Garden was a Flower market, but now it has cool shops, cafes, restaurants and street theatre. Theatres and museums are close, too. "I love going there in the summer. You can stand in the square and watch the street entertainment - it's great!" Aisha, 14. The only problem is you might spend too much money. I go there a lot to add something to my manga collection." I love it - especially the singers like Lady Gaga. She's my favourite. It's cool. The old buildings are really nice and there are good shops.  I like running there at the weekend. When I get tired I stop and feed the ducks. It's one of my favourite places in the whole city. It's just got so many different things - old cars, machines, places, and things like that. Great on a rainy Sunday! 3 Megastores. London has some great megastores where you can buy games, CDs, DVDs and all kinds of toys. The one for science-fiction fans is Forbidden Planet in Shaftesbury Avenue, where you can get thousands of comics, mangas, books, DVDs, games and toys.  "This place is a must for fans of all kinds of series (Dr Who, Star Wars). But what I like best is the huge range of comics. I could spend days there..." The Science Museum. In Kensington, there's an area where three of London's biggest Museums can be found together: The Natural History Museum, The Victoria and Albert Museum, and The Science Museum. The last of these is the most popular with teenagers - and not only because it's free! "I love it because there's a lot of "hands-on" things. You know, things to touch and pull and play with. Lots of fun!" One of several parks in central London, Hyde Park is great for people that like fresh air! With kilometres of paths, a lake and lots of trees, it's a nice place to relax or take a bit of exercise. You can also see a memorial to Princess Diana. "Hyde Park is one the reasons I like living in London. When I'm there, I', a long away from traffic and noise. Do you like nature? Go there!"

Cindy, you live in London, don't you? That's Right. And do you like Living here? Yeah, I think it's brilliant. We came here Five years ago and I just love it. It's great. Ok. And what is it that you like About London? Well, it's so multicultural. Alright! Tell us more. Well, you know, everywhere you go in London, you see all kinds of different people different colours of skin and hair and everything, and wearing different kinds of clothes. I love that! And it means you can get food from all over the world, too — and I don't just mean in Restaurants. No? No! I mean, there are Food Shops near my house that sell everything. Anthony, can you tell us what you think about living in London. It's pretty good. You know, there are bad things, like there's too much traffic and the streets are a bit dirty sometimes, but it's a really good place to live. Why? well, lots of reasons really. Um, I think the best thing, for me, is ... yeah, it's the music and stuff. Interviewer Music? Really? Anthony That's right. Music's really important for me, and here in London I can find any CD I want and I can go to loads of concerts, too. Interviewer So, there are a lot of concerts in London. Anthony Oh, yeah! Everywhere, all the time. Places like Hyde Park. You get free concerts there sometimes and in loads of other places, too. So, Julie — tell us what you like most about living in London. Well, I know this is a bit strange — but one of my favourite things is the underground. Yeah, lots of people laugh when I say that. But I think it's great. I really love looking at all the other people on the train! And sometimes at the weekend I just take the underground somewhere, and it's fun to come up the steps and out of the station and find yourself in a different part of the city — a new place, somewhere you don't already know. Last week I found a beautiful square with really nice buildings around it. Yes, I Guess that could be fun. It is! It's an Adventure and that's what London is for me - a big Adventure!



