Alessia I've been friends with Alessia for two years, but it wasn't always that way. When she and her family moved here, I wasn't really happy. A girl I So I couldn't play Football with her. A girl from a foreign country- so it would be difficult to talk to her. "She still has to learn the language," Mum said. Fine by me I thought, let her learn it, but it's none of my business. But I knew my mum. "George," she said, "you must help her." "Why me?" I said. "I've never done anything like that. I'm not a teacher. All I can do is teach her how to play football." "Don't be silly," Mum said. "And take her some of your old books, the simple ones, and maybe one or two soft toys." "Mum!" I cried, "I've had those books for years. I like them. They were my favourites when I was a little kid. And the soft toys too. I've had them since I was a baby." "I didn't say take all of them; just one or two. And I'm sure you'll get the books back once she can read them. And take her one or two games as well." I knew my mum. Once she has made up her mind about something, she doesn't let go. So I did as she told me; I took the stuff and said hello to the family. They seemed really happy, and Alessia smiled and smiled - but didn't say a word. "You've been a great help," Mum said when I came back. "Now let's see what else we can do for them." "Oh damn," I thought, "why can't I have parents that are kind to others without the help of their son?" From then on it was like this: Mum: Take this MP3-player to Alessia! Me: But... Mum: No but, you haven't used it for years, you listen to your music on your mobile phone anyway. Or: Mum: Take these rollerskates to Alessia. Me: But Mum, I've just started to use them again. Mum: Only because you knew I wanted to give them away. Anyway, again and again I went next door, and of course, I talked to Alessia about this and that. And I kind of liked the way she smiled when she got these presents. And I liked the cookies her mum gave me. Then one day, a kid was making fun of her at school and I stepped in*. Some of the kids laughed at me for that, but I didn't really mind. After all, I am the school's best  footballer, so nobody would give me a hard time. Anyway, what happened was that Alessia and I became friends. Just like that, I think. We talked to each other every day and spent some time together. I quite liked talking to her, and I also noticed that her English got much better. For some time her parents kept saying, "You've been such a big help, George, thank you very much." But then they stopped because they began to understand that I quite liked helping her. And I actually like Alessia, too. There's only one little problem now. Her parents are talking about moving to another city. And Alessia and me are now talking about how we can stop them. When  Alessia's family moved in near George's, D he was disappointed. D he was happy. D he invited her to play football. 2 George's mum told him to D teach her how to play football. D go and say hello. D take her some of his things. 3 When he first took Alessia some of his Things D she said thank you. D she looked happy. D her parents didn't seem very happy. George was happy to give away his MP3-player. T/ F George was worried About children bullying him at school. T / F George doesn't want Alessia's family to move again. T/F Where do you think this text Comes from? How does George's relationship with Alessia change over time? What do you think happens next?  

Which of your things do you like best? Erm — my MP3-player, I think. How Long have you had it? I've had it since August last year. I got it for my Birthday. And how often do you use it? I use it when I do my homework and before I go to Sleep. Gabriella, which of your Things do you like best? oh, that's easy! My Laptop. How Long have you had it? I've had it for three years. And how often do you use it? I use it almost every day. I surf the web on it and I write and get emails. Peter - which of your Things do you like best? My books. How Long have you had them? Since I was six, when I learnt to read. I get lots of books and I buy lots. And how often do you use them? I love reading. I read every night before I go to bed. Which of your Things do you like best? The soft toys on my bed. How Long have you had them? I've had them for a Long time. I got most of them before I started School. And how often do you use them? Oh, almost never! I don't Play with them anymore but I don't want to throw them away. John - which of the Things you own do you like a lot? My new mountain bike. How Long have you had it? Let me think. Right. I've had it since last summer, I got it in JUly. And how often do you use it? I use it every day. I ride it to School. And I ride it at the Weekends with my Friends. Pat which of the Things you own do you like a lot? Oh, that's difficult. THere are lots of Things I like. Can you just tell me About one Thing? Ok, my camera. How Long have you had it? For two months. And how often do you use it? At the Weekend, I go horse riding and I take photos of all the horses there.


What kind of friend are you? DO this test and find out if you're really the good friend you think you are. You had an argument with your best friend who hasn't phoned you for two weeks. What do you do? 3 D a You look for a new friend. D b You sulk for some t ime. D c You call your friend and try to make up with him/her. Your friend notices that you have a problem and asks you what it is. How do you react? D a You say that you don't want to talk about your problem. D b You share your problem with your friend. D c You get angry and tell your friend to mind his/her own business. You're at your friend's place. Your friend is laughing all the time. What do you do? D a You're sure that your friend is laughing about you and you get angry. D b You ask why he/she is laughing such a lot. D c You say that laughing is childish and storm out of the room. You've got a new haircut, but your friend says that you look awful. What do you do? D a You aren't happy, but you know that good Friends are honest. D b You have an argument, fall out with your friend and never talk to him/her again. D c You tell your friend that you don't like his/her haircut either. Your best friend has been ill for three weeks. In the meantime, you've found another friend. Today your best friend is back at school. What do you do? D a Introduce your best friend to your new friend because you're sure they'll get on well with each other. D b You don't talk to your new friend any more. D c You tell your best friend t hat you haven't got time to meet him/her any more. ' You haven't been to the cinema since last Christmas. There's a great film on tonight. You want to go, but your girlfriend / boyfriend wants to go to a party. What do you do? a Your girlfriend/boyfriend goes to the party, you go to see the film, and you are still friends.D b Break up with him/her. You don't want to be Friends with someone who doesn't like what you like. D c You say that you don't really want to see the film and go along to the party. 


A Man's Best Friend. The Actor, his Friend and the Dog. It's a dog's life.  They say that a dog is a man's best friend. Well, there's one famous  Hollywood star who might just agree. Sylvester Stallone has been a successful actor for over 45 years and films such as Rocky, Rambo and The Expendables have made him a Household name all over the world. But like many actors, before he found success, life wasn't always so easy. In 1975, Stallone was a struggling actor trying to sell his script for a film About boxing called Rocky. No one was interested and soon Stallone had no money left and nowhere to sleep. He only had one Possession left and there was only one thing to do. With a broken heart Stallone sold his beloved dog to a man called Little Jimmy for $50 A week later, Stallone sold the script for a huge sum. As soon as he had the money, he immediately went to see Little Jimmy and asked to buy his dog back. Little Jimmy wasn't interested because his Children already loved the dog. So Stallone made him another offer for $3,000 - 60 times the original price. Now Little Jimmy was interested but he still wanted one more thing. He wanted a role in the film. Stallone agreed. And that is how Sylvester Stallone got his best friend back and Little Jimmy got himself a small part in one of the biggest films of that year. In fact, Rocky went on to win three Oscars at the 1976 Academy Awards including one for best picture. 


Stallone has been a successful Actor for any years. As a young man, however, he didn't have a lot of money. Stallone tried to sell the script for ROcky, but couldn't. So with a broken hear he sold his dog for 50. A week later he sold the script and wanted to buy his dog back. The new owner, Little Jimmy, didn't want  to sell it. So Stallone offered him a part in the film. He also offered him a lot of money. Little Jimmy agreed and Stallone got his dog back.


A good friend always keeps a secret for you. A good friend never lies to you. A good friend listens to your problems. Good friends don't just say what you want to hear.

Kate There you are. I've spent the last hour looking for you. And you weren't on the bus this morning or yesterday. Tom What? Kate I said ... Tom, what's the matter? Are you alright? Tom Yeah. Yeah. It's nothing. I'm just a bit tired. Kate It's not nothing. You don't look at all well. Tom I told you. I'm just a bit tired. I haven't slept well for a few nights. Kate Poor you. Have you got any idea why? Tom No, not really. I've got a bit of a stomach ache too. That doesn't help. Kate That's terrible! Did you eat something bad? Tom I don't think so. Nothing I can remember anyway. Kate And what's that on your skin? Tom Where? Kate There on your arm. It looks a bit red. Tom Oh that. It's just a bit of a rash. It's on my legs and stomach too. Kate How awful. When did this start? Tom A couple of days ago. Kate About the same time you started sleeping badly and getting stomach ache? Tom Yeah, I suppose so. Kate I don't think you're ill, Tom. I think you're stressed. Tom Stressed? What do you mean? Kate I think something happened a few days ago and you're worried about it. That's why you're feeling this way. Now, if I'm right and you consider me a good friend, I think you should tell me. After all, that's what good friends are for.  



