 Nikola Tesla: The man who invented the 20th century. When Nikola Tesla arrived in New York in June 1884 he only had 4 cents in his pocket. When he died alone on January ]lh 1943 in room 3327 of the Hotel New Yorker, he was penniless. In the 59 years between those two dates, Tesla came up with some of the most important inventions of the 20th century. He invented the electric motor, fluorescent light bulbs, the neon lamp, the first remote-controlled boat and the first speedometer for cars. He also designed the world's first hydroelectric power plant* at Niagara Falls, which used the power of the water to produce electricity. So why wasn't Tesla a billionaire when he died? Perhaps it was his most important invention that was also responsible for his bad luck. In the late 1880s Tesla developed a new kind of electricity. His AC electrical current* was cheaper and easier to use than the DC electrical current* that people used at the time. Unfortunately for Tesla, Thomas Edison, perhaps the most famous inventor of the time, had all his money invested in DC current. Edison used his influence to tell people that AC current was too dangerous. In 1893, at the World Exposition in Chicago, Tesla went on stage to show people how safe AC current was. He passed a huge current through his body to power up light bulbs and then used his Tesla coil to shoot large electric lightning bolts into the crowd. Tesla had to spend much of his life trying to show people how great his ideas were. Many of them were 'years before their time'. People thought he was crazy when he promised a wireless broadcasting system* to send pictures and sounds around the world. They laughed at him when he said he could send energy waves through water to detect* German submarines at the beginning of the First World War. Tesla had so many brilliant ideas, but the little money he made from t hem he used on his next invention. But these days we can see his influence all around us. We all use AC current in our homes to power our computers and televisions. Militaries around the world use radar to defend their countries. These and many others are all inventions from the brilliant mind of Nikola Tesla. 

 Tesla made a lot of money in his life. T / F 2 Tesla invented the speedboat. T / F 3 Edison told people not to use Tesla's electricity. T / F 4 Tesla went on stage and passed electrical current through his body D to show it wasn't dangerous. D to entertain people. D to turn on some lights. 5 One of Tesla's biggest problems was D he spent too much money. D he was mad. D people didn't believe his ideas were possible. 6 These days D people call Tesla the greatest inventor of all time. D Tesla's ideas are everywhere. D not many people know about Tesla. 7 Which of Tesla's inventions do you think is the most important? 8 Who do you think is the greatest inventor of all time and why? 9 Do you think Tesla was a happy man? Give your reasons. 

 I've invented something that I think might impress my science teacher - it's a time-travelling machine. It wasn't easy. First I had to discover a way of making time travel possible. That took me a few weeks, but once I had worked that out it wasn't too difficult. I sat down with some pens and designed my machine on paper. I experimented with different shapes and colours for the machine and found that a red rectangle worked best, so I used an old telephone box. I improved it by putting an armchair in it. It's important to be comfortable when you travel through time. I've built a prototype, but I haven't tried it out yet. I'm quite confident it will work, and if it does, I think I'll have to start producing my machines so that all families can have one.  1 to test to see if something works - 2 to make better - 3 to try different ways of doing things - 4 to find out something that no one knew before - 5 to draw plans - 6 to build something (usually so it can be sold) - 7 to find a solution to a problem - 8 to create something new - 


water-talkie D hot dog D wristies D ice-lolly D trampoline D football goal   It was invented by the youngest of these four inventors. 2 It was built in a garage. 3 The idea came to the inventor on holiday. 4 The inventor waited several years before producing his invention. 5 The inventor now owns a company. 6 The idea came to the inventor when he was at the circus. 7 It got a lot of interest from a toy shop. 8 It was an accidental invention. 
Kids are wonderful inventors. They are creative and in their minds anything is still possible. You just have to watch a couple of eight-year-olds playing to see that's true. Of course, not everything they come up with is practical or possible but just sometimes, a child with a great idea and with an adult to believe in them can produce something quite remarkable. Take Richie Stachowski, for example. Back in 1996 when he was II years old, his family took him on holiday to Hawaii where he fell in love with snorkelling. However, he wished there was some way he could talk to his dad under the water. When he got back home he decided to research underwater acoustics. After a lot of experimenting he came up with the Water Talkie, a cone shaped device that allowed people to talk with each other under the water. He asked for an interview with a large toy shop and by the end of it he had an order for 50,000 water talkies. He started a company to produce his product and two years later he sold it making him a very rich 13-year-old indeed. Even younger than Richie was Kathryn Gregory, who at the age of ten, got tired of her wrists hurting from the cold when she played in snow. She decided to find a way of keeping her hands and arms warm during the winter and came up with idea for Wristies, a sort of glove for the arms. With help from her mother, she set about making and selling her product. In 1997, she appeared on a shopping channel on TV and sold $22,000 worth of Wristies in six minutes. She is now the CEO of her own company Wristies Inc. Sometimes kids come up with truly amazing inventions that become famous all over the world. In 1930, 16-year-old George Nissen was watching acrobats practising in a circus. When they fell off the high wire, they were caught by a safety net below. George thought it would be fun if they could bounce back up again. In his parents garage he built a metal frame and stretched a canvas over it. He called it a 'bouncing rig', a few years later he renamed it and the trampoline was born. And finally how about Frank Epperson, who in 1905 at the age of II invented the ice-lolly entirely by accident. One day he mixed some water and juice together in a glass. He went in that evening and left the glass outside with the mixing stick still in it. It was a freezing winter's night and when he woke the next morning, he found he had created the world's first ice-lolly. He didn't do anything with his invention until 1922 when he decided to produce it for selling. By 1925 sales of popsicles were more than 60 million. 


Helping herself, helping others  9-year-old Sadie McCallum suffers from Spastic Diplegia Cerebral Palsy. This means that problems with her muscles make it difficult for her to move about and she uses a wheelchair, crutches1 or a walker to help her get around.   Since her family first learned about her disability more than eight years ago, Sadie has always spent a lot of time in hospital and she has had two big operations. When she was seven she had operations on both hips. It was very complicated, but the doctors hoped it would allow Sadie to walk on her own. Sadie was in hospital for a week and after that she had to spend another four weeks resting in bed. She had a lot of time to think. One of Sadie's biggest hobbies is reading and she spends a lot of time visiting the library.  She thought about how difficult the journey to the library can be for her. She can't just go up and down steps with a walker to help her, but needs to look for ramps and these aren't always in the most practical places. She started thinking of ways to make her walker more flexible4.  After several different drawings, Sadie had a design she thought might work. Now she just needed to bring her plans to life. And she had another reason for wanting to make her ideas a reality. Every year, her school holds an Invention Convention where students can bring in their inventions 5 and compete for prizes. For the last two years her illness had stopped Sadie from enterinq6. Now was her big chance. With a little help from her family Sadie built her Amazing Curb* Climber in time for the competition.  Her invention won first place in the 'Best Use of a Wheel' category at the school convention. But success didn't stop there and Sadie's invention has won two more prizes including a 'Microsoft Technology Award'  Sadie already has plans to improve on her designs and make the walker even better. She's also working on ideas for other inventions to help disabled people, including a wheelchair with an umbrella.  Seven operations 2 Making an idea come true 3 Unable to move 4 More ideas 5 Sports competitions 6 A lot of awards 7 Steps that make life difficult  taking part in D sticks to help people who have problems D able to adapt easily to different with walking situations D something that has never been made before D a slope for wheelchairs to go up D a metal frame with four legs for people who can't walk very well 


 Have you ever entered a competition? B Yes, I've entered quite a few. A Really? What sort of competitions? B Competitions for inventors. I like inventing things. A Have you ever won one? B Yes, I've won three. In fact, I won a competition last week. A What was your invention? B I created some computer software to help people keep their passwords safe. A And what did you win? B I got £600. 

 A tape measure that is also a belt. D A pair of slippers with LED lights at the front. D A pram attached to a scooter. D A plastic bag with fake mould*. D A babygro* with cleaning pads attached to the arms and the legs. D A pair of children's gloves attached to a pair of adult gloves. 
