 Your world and mine Meet a teenager from a big city in South Africa... and a small town in Canada.  I'm not allowed to go out when it's dark - my parents say it's too dangerous.  Meet Milase  I'm Milase. I live near Cape Town, one of the biggest cities in South Africa. My father's a waiter in a hotel and my mother's a housewife, but two days a week she does the cleaning for another family. Their house is much bigger than ours. I have three brothers who are six, eight and eleven. We live in a small house. We have a small garden. We aren't allowed to play ball games there because my mum is growing vegetables there. My brothers and I are allowed to play in the street because t here isn't a lot of traffic. Not many people have cars where we live. At home we speak Zulu, but at school we speak English most of the time because all our subjects are in English. When my parents were children, they weren't allowed to speak Zulu at school. That was in the time of Apartheid, when black and white people weren't allowed to mix. I'm not allowed to go out when it's dark - my parents say it's too dangerous. I t hink my parents are right. When my mum's away in the afternoons, I have to look after my brothers after school. I really don't like that because they usually make a mess in the house. Then my mum gets very angry with me and we aren't allowed to watch TV for a day or two. I think that's unfair because it's my brothers who always make t he mess and not me.  Meet Curtis  My name's Curtis. I live near Whitehorse, Canada, a town of about 25,000 people. Both my parents work. My dad's a Mountie, a policeman with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and my mother's a dentist. My dad has two guns at home, but I'm not allowed to touch them. My dad has taught me to shoot because sometimes we go hunting for deer, but I'm never allowed to go hunting without him. In winter it's very cold in Whitehorse and there's a lot of snow. I love the winter. It's great fun to ride the snowmobile, but I'm not allowed to drive too far into the woods. My mum thinks I'll get lost out there. Last year, Dad helped me and my friend Charlie to build an igloo on the frozen Yukon river. The best thing was that our parents allowed us to spend a night in the igloo. We weren't afraid because the grizzly bears aren't around in the winter - they all sleep. But I think our parents were worried because they picked us up very early in the morning. When it snows a lot, I have to help Dad to clear the snow in front of the house and the garage. I don't have to do any housework, but I have to tidy up my room. My room's quite big. I have a PC there, a stereo and my own television, but I'm not allowed to watch TV after 9.30. There's one other thing I'm not allowed to do - turn the volume of my stereo up full when my parents are at home. They say my music gives them a headache! 

 Milase's mother doesn't work. T / F 2 Milase speaks more than one language. T / F 3 Milase has to stay inside when it gets dark. T / F Complete the sentences with no more than 4 words. 4 The population of Whitehorse is  .. 5 You don't see grizzly bears  .. 6 Curtis has to  .. 7 Where do you think you would find a text like this?  8 How is your life similar to Milase's?  9 How is your life different from Curtis's? 

 The Mennonites  The Mennonite movement 1 began in the 16th century. At that time they 2 thought that Martin Luther's reforms during the Protestant Reformation 3 were not radical enough. The Mennonites didn't like the baptism of children. The Mennonites think that only adult baptism is right. Today there are over one million Mennonites all over the world. In the USA there are 4 about 20 Mennonite groups and a total of 50,000 people. The Mennonites are very peaceful people. Many Mennonites do not do military 5 service. There are two groups of Mennonites. Some Mennonites follow the old way and still live like the farmers of 150 years 6 ago, without cars or electricity. But most of them live the way that most people in the Western 7 world do.  

Maria, can I ask you some questions? Sure, go ahead. How old are you? Twenty. And you lived in a strict Maria Mennonite group until you were eighteen? That's right. I'm still a Mennonite, but my family isn't with a strict group any more. Interviewer What was it like to grow Maria up like that? Well, it was certainly different to how most kids in the US grow up. Can you give us some examples? Well,  for example, we didn't have electricity. You can imagine what that means. Yes - no TV, no Computers r DVD, no phones not even a Radio. Right, We lived the way that farming communities lived about 150 years ago. No cars? No cars, just horses. Were you allowed to go to School? Yes, of course. I went to a private School. What was that like? Well, our school was a one-room building and we were all together until we were fourteen. And what happened then? My parents moved nd I was allowed to go to a public high School. Was it difficult at the new School? At the beginning, yes, but then I made a lot of Friends. Maria, thanks for the interview. You're welcome. 

Diego, when did you first come to the US? When I was fourteen. My dad used to cross the border illegally to work. I had to wait until I was fourteen before he allowed me to go with him. How did you cross the border from Mexico? They  hid us under the back seats of two cars. I was not allowed to speak or move. ANd what happened then? My dad and I went to work in the fields. Where did you stay in the US? My dad and I and four other men had  very small Apartment over  Garage. What did you do in your free time? Well, there wasn't much to do. We watched TV and played  Football. Could you leave the farm? No, we weren't allowed to do that. Why not? Because we didn't have passports. How Long did you work on the farm? For three months. What happened then? We were lucky. They gave my father a visa and he was allowed to bring his family to the US. Do you like Living in the USA? Yes, I do. I can go to school, I have lots of friends and there are so many things to do. Like what? Diego I love sports. I play baseball and basketball and I don't have to work all the time. Thanks for the interview, Diego. You're welcome.



Maria still lives with a strict Mennonite group. TI F 2 When Maria was growing up she couldn't watch TV. TI F 3 Maria often listened to the radio. T / F 4 Maria didn't go to school. T / F 5 When Maria was fourteen, she went to a public high school. TI F 6 When Diego was fourteen, he went to Mexico for the first time. T / F 7 Diego and his dad crossed the border to work on a farm. TI F 8 Diego was not allowed to watch TV on the farm. TI F 9 Now Diego·s family lives in the USA. T / F 10 Diego likes it in the USA. 

 dye your hair (blue) □ get a tattoo □ go roller-skating without pads □ buy your own clothes □ have a party at home □ use your parents' camcorder □ go to the disco □ ride your bike without a helmet  □ come home after ten at the weekend □ turn your music up really loud □ eat too many sweets □ get a nose stud □ play video games all day □ watch TV after 10 o'clock □ wear earrings □ hang out in shopping centres  A Are you allowed to stay up late and watch TV? B It depends. A What do you mean? B Well, I can stay up, but only on Saturdays. A Really? Until when? B Until eleven. What about you? A When there's a good film on, my parents let me watch it. B Even if it's a late-night film? A Well, if it's a really good film .. . yes! A That's a beautiful tattoo. B Yeah, do you like it? A Yes, I do. I'm not allowed to have one. Did it hurt? B No, it didn't hurt at al l. It's fake! A Really? Where did you get it? I think I'm going to get one, too. To scare my mum.  Are you allowed to have parties at home?  It's OK with my parents, but we aren't allowed to have the music too loud. A Are you allowed to get a nose stud? B No way! C Really? Why's that? B My parents hate them! They've already said no! Well, I think my parents might let me, but I don't want to have a stud anyway. C Why not? A I don't think studs look cool. What about you? C I'm not sure really. My older sister has a nose stud and I think it looks nice, but I don't want one for myself. 

In our group, one student isn't allowed to have a nose stud. His parents hate them. One student thinks her parents might allow it, but she doesn't think studs look cool and so she doesn't want to have one. Another student doesn't know if he wants to have a stud or not.

 We weren't allowed to sing. We weren't allowed to dance. We weren't allowed to play the drums - that's why we left our farm to join a band - arm in arm.  I'm not allowed to shoot down the moon. I'm not allowed to sell my spoon. I'm not allowed to hunt for bears. I'm not allowed to paint my chairs. I'm not allowed to sink my boat. I'm not allowed to ride my goat - that's why I'm leaving my sweet home to live in the garden as a gnome.  I'm not allowed to move. I'm not allowed to keep my leaves in winter. I'm not allowed to talk to children. I'm not allowed to throw branches at thieves. I'm not allowed to kick people cutting my bark - that's why I'm leaving this park to go and live on Noah's ark.   We aren't I allowed to play in the street. 2 I'm not allowed to get a tattoo. 3 My brother and sister aren't allowed to go out. 4 We can't watch television after eleven. 5 We're leaving to go and live in another town. 


 Kate So, why did you want to see me, Tom? 1 What's up? You look worried. Tom I am. Mum's just told me. Kate Told you what? Tom We've got a visitor next week. And I've got to look after her. Kate So? What's the problem? Tom Did you hear what I said. Her - I've got to look after her. It's a girl. Bianca! Kate Oh don't be so silly. Who is she anyway? Tom Remember I told you my mum lived in Brazil for a few years when she was younger. Well, she's the daughter of one of my mum's Brazilian friends. Kate Would you like me to help you? Tom Would you? That would be great. Kate So what are you so worried about? Tom Well, she's from a hot country. She'll freeze over here. Kate I'm sure she's thought of that, Tom. But, if not, then I could lend her some of my clothes if you like. Tom What if they don't fit? Kate Tom!  Tom Sorry. That would really help. But another thing. What if her English isn't very good? How am I going to talk to her? Kate I'm sure her English will be fine. But, listen. Why don't I talk to Laura from school. She's from Portugal. Tom Really? Thanks, Kate. That's a great idea. Kate It's no trouble. I'm sure you'll have a great time. Tom Yeah, but the worst thing is she's going to stay in my bedroom. That means I've got to sleep on the sofa. Kate Do you want me to ask my parents if she can stay with us? She could sleep in my room with me. Tom Kate, what would I do without you? 
