A fair world
Coffee is the most popular drink in the world. A coffee tree can produce up to 6 kilos of coffee a year. A third of the world's coffee is produced in Brazil. Oil is the number 1 product that is bought and sold in the world. Coffee is number 2.

Hard work for little money
Sofia Gomez works for a large coffee company in the hills of Honduras. Her dad was a coffee farmer too, but he sold his farm to the company because he couldn't make enough money to make a living. Sofia works very hard, getting up at daybreak and getting to bed very late, but she can never save any money. She has just enough to buy food and clothes for herself and for her two children and her mother. She hasn't got a car, she hasn't got a TV, she only has an old fridge and a small radio. From the radio she's heard about Fair Trade. They pay small coffee farmers a fair price for their coffee. This helps them to live without having to worry about food, clothes and medicine.
If Fair Trade had existed when my dad still had the farm, he wouldn't have sold it," she says. "And my life would be better! Now all I can hope for is to keep my job and maybe a pay rise.

Vicente Peres's farm is only three hours away from Sofia's. Vicente is not as worried as Sofia. Vicente and twenty other farmers are part of a Fair Trade project. They get a fixed price for their coffee and they don't use pesticides. On their small farms there are lots of trees that give shade to the coffee plants and there are also banana trees and avocado trees. This is good for the environment. 

Vicente joined the project a year ago. If he had known that Fair Trade pays a fixed price, he would have joined earlier. Now he is happy because he doesn't have to worry about feeding his children or buying them clothes or books for school.

Coffee beans are picked, selected, dried and roasted.

The journalist is explaining the economics of coffee. how coffee is made. the history of coffee

Did you know that oil is the number one product that is bought and sold in the world? coffee'sAnd then . number two! 70 per cent of the world's cffee is grown on small farms. And like oil, the price can go up and down. Now, unil 1989, coffee prices never fell below a minimum price because there was the International Coffee Agreement. What's that? Well, most coffee producing countries agreed that there would be a minimum price for coffee. They could guarantee that because every country said they would produce a certain quota and no more. But then Brazil decided to increase production and that was the end of the Agreement. at was the minimum price back then? It used to be US$2.68 per kilo, and then it suddenly dropped to 1,54. at's nearly half the price! And what's the price now? That's difficult to say because prices go up and down. But at the end of 2017 it was 2,5. But that's even less than 30 years ago! Right. Why's that? One  thing is — coffee prices go up and down a lot ... And markets change. The biggest market for coffee is the USA. In 1970, each person in the USA drank about 150 litres of coffee a year. In 2000, it was only 70 litres a year. People had started to drink more soft drinks, so there wasn't so much demand for coffee. Then there's another problem. Farmers produce too much coffee. Now if there's too much coffee it's easy for the big buyer's to pay little for the coffee and make a huge profit. That's not fair. Of course it isn't. That is why many small farmers have cooperatives now and sell Fair Trade products. This means farmers get a fixed price, which means it never goes below the fixed rate. But if prices go up, their fixed price goes up too. The Fair Trade farmer earns as much as 12—15% of the final price — which is much more than they used to earn. So Fair Trade is the answer? Well, it is one solution. And remember — it's not only coffee but many other products as well. The Oxfam website currently lists 19 products that have Fair Trade Agreements. Check it out!

Are there any shops that sell Fair Trade products where you live? Why are Fair Trade products more expensive than "normal" products? Do you buy Fair Trade products? Why / Why not





Diary Project: Living together in harmony
Racism
Martin Luther Kind Jr., winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, said, "I want to be the white man's brother, not his brother-in-law."
Racism comes from fear and ignorance of other cultures. But you can make a difference. Because, in the end, we're all the same - we're just human beings. Write us an email in the form of a diary entry.

Why are blacks always put down? (by Martin, 15, male) Whites often believe they're better than black people. But what about the positive things blacks are doing? It's painful that even in history books blacks are not respected enough for their work. Blacks have done great things in history that many people don't know about. If black slaves hadn't built America, it wouldn't have become the country we know. Our grandfathers overcame slavery. Let's all work together now - we can overcome racism! 

Hurtful comments (by Amy, 14, female) Whenever my dad sees me watching TV shows or listening to music with a black actor or singer/rapper, he makes a comment like "Look at my little black girl." I'm white. He also says he's going to have a son-in-law who's black. I don't understand why he makes the comments. I hang out with a lot of black people. But I'm not trying to be them, I just love hanging out with my black friends. I have white friends, too, and I wish my dad would think before he makes comments that hurt my feelings. 

Why???? (by Jason, 15, male) I can't BELIEVE what happened today! Some idiots threw EGGS at K's house because she's Middle Eastern!!!! It was awful: the stink of half-rotten eggs and the foot-high letters in red spray paint on the garage door saying TERRORISTS GO HOME. Why would people attack my best friend just because of her religion and where she's from??? ?? I helped her clean jt up ... she was crying. I'd never seen her cry before. I can't see why people would do this when she's just trying to be a normal 16-year-old! 

On the road to hell!
There are over 950 million cars in the world today. Experts say that the number of cars on Earth will double in the next 30 years. This creates a lot of problems.
Firstly, lots of cars mean a lot of pollution. The air in some of the big cities has become so bad that many people suffer from the smog. But it's not only people who suffer — pollution is bad for trees, rivers and lakes. Secondly, there are lots of accidents every year because there are so many cars. It is terrible that one million people every year die in road accidents. So what can we do? I think there should be more buses and trains in big cities and people should use them more often. But there should also be more bicycle tracks so people can ride their bikes safely. 

If Fair Trade had existed when my dad still had the farm, he wouldn't have sold it, " she says. If Vicente had known that Fair Trade pays a fixed price, he would have joined earlier. If black slaves hadn't built America, it wouldn't have become the country we know

Oh, it's you. I didn't recognise the number. Yeah, I'm on the house phone. Listen, about the meeting. The meeting? Yes, your meeting to organise a Fair Trade event. Oh, that meeting. I'd forgotten. Like someone else I know. I know I wasn't there. I was going to call No, no. You don't need to say anything. It's 0K. Kate. I feel really bad. I meant to call you. I really did, but But nothing, Tom. I organised a meeting for something that I really care about. I thought you cared about it too. You obviously don't. There's nothing really to talk about. Come on, don't be like that, Kate. Let me explain. Something happened and I didn't want to worry you. 
You didn't want to worry me. That's very kind. Tom, the meeting was yesterday. Why are you apologising now? Well, I was going to call you last night but my phone's broken. I know it's no excuse but I think you'll understand when you see me. When I see you? I'm not really sure I want to see you at the moment. Please, Kate. Let me come round. Well, 0K. But you'll have to be quick. I'm meeting up with all the people who did come to the meeting. Luckily, I didn't have to rely just on you. I'll be round in five. I think you're going to forgive me.
Tom doesn't usually phone Kate on his house phone. Tom is calling about the Fair Trade meeting. Tom didn't want to go to the meeting. Kate is upset with Tom. Kate thinks Tom is late with his apology. Tom thinks he has a good excuse. Not many people went to the meeting. Kate doesn't want to see him
 1 was going to call. 2 1 meant to call you. 3 Don't be like that. 4 1 didn't want to worry you. 5 1 know  it's no excuse

Unbelievable! I've broken my leg for the second time this year. And this time it was all my fault. I'd just collected Kate's signs from the shop. They were much bigger than I'd expected. Anyway, I was there with my bike, so getting them home was going to be difficult! I probably should have taken a taxi, but I didn't. Anyway, on my way home I crashed my bike and that's how it all happened. At least Kate's forgiven me for missing the meeting.

I know. I know I wasn’t there. I was going to call ... Kate No, no. You don't need to say anything . It’s OK. Tom Kate. I feel really bad. I meant to call you. I really did, but ... Kate But nothing, Tom. I organised a meeting for something that I really care about. I thought you cared about it too. You obviously don’t. There’s nothing really to talk about

