Brenda's Books
Hi, this is Brenda's Books online, and this week I'm recommending a book that really, really grabbed me. It's The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas by John Boyne. It came out in 2006. My History teacher told me about it, so I got myself a copy and I finished the book in one go. I passed it on to some of my friends and they all were really moved by the book. 

The boy in the Striped Pyjamas by John Boyne
Bruno is nine and he lives in Berlin with his parents. His father is a soldier. One day his father and the family are sent to a place called Out-With. The place is terrible. There is nobody to play with and Bruno is bored. So he starts exploring and finds out that there are people living in a large camp on the other side of a high fence. Bruno notices that they all wear striped pyjamas. Then he sees a boy on the other side of the fence. The boy is called Shmuel. They get talking, but they can't play together because of the fence between them. Bruno visits Shmuel as often as he can. One day Shmuel tells Bruno that his father has gone missing somewhere in the camp. Bruno crawls through a small hole in the fence, puts on striped pyjamas and helps Shmuel explore the camp. The fascinating thing about the book is that we see everything through Bruno's eyes. Bruno has no idea that Out-With is the concentration camp of Auschwitz. He's mostly interested in his world of games and dreams and he only finds out the truth about the concentration camp very slowly. Through the eyes of this innocent little boy, the reader sees and feels the horrors of that time. A great read, not only for people who are interested in history, but for everyone.

Bruno and his family move to another place. Bruno starts looking around his new home. Bruno sees many people wearing striped pyjamas. Bruno makes a new friend. Bruno's friend tells him about a problem. Bruno goes to help his friend.
Did you see the movie last night, the one about the little boy and Auschwitz? Oh, The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas? No, I didn't see it. I didn't want to because I've just started reading the book. Was it any good? Well, I've read the book and I've seen the movie, and I have to say the movie is a bit of a disappointment. How come? Well, take the ending, for instance . Don't you dare! I haven't seen it! Remember? I'm reading the book . Oh, alright. Still, let me say, the ending came Pretty unexpected for me when I read the book. But watching the movie you could see it coming miles ahead. Maybe you only did, because you'd read it before. Maybe, but I don't think so. I think the book is really thrilling, the movie isn't really. 0K, so give me the chance to be thrilled. By the way, did you read Once? Yes, and the next book, too. I think Gleitzman is a terrific writer, and he is also very good at telling a story how children would tell it. But the best of them all is The Book Thief. Yeah, Mum got it for me last week. I'm sooo looking forward to reading it. Then again, I won't have time for any movies. Not even if I ask you out? I'll Well, in that case… 

poetry anthology: a collection of poems
novel: a long piece of fiction
anthology of short stories: a collection of short pieces of fiction
biography: a book about someone's life
play: a work of fiction to be performed on stage
dictionary: a reference book used when you want to find the meaning of a word
screenplay: a work of fiction to be filmed
comic: a fictional story in Pictures

Sputnik's Guide to Life on Earth: One summer to save the world! When Prez meets Sputnik - a small, loud alien - he's shocked to hear that the world is about to be destroyed. Unless Prez can show Sputnik ten things worth seeing or doing on Earth... But Prez's list of amazing things is not quite the same as Sputnik's - will it be enough to save the planet?

clear up: making a place tidy
answer the door: go and open the door for a visitor
wee: very small (used mainly in Scotland)
spot of bother: a small problem
sort oneself out: successfully deal with a problem
kilt: a traditional Scottish skirt for men
goggles: special glasses that fit close to your face to protect your eyes

Are you a reader, Julie? Julie I think so, yes. I read about two books every month. Hmm, sounds good. So Interviewer what are your favourites? Julie Mostly girls' books. Like Gossip Girl, which is all about beautiful and rich girls in New York. The books are rubbish, but they're good fun. And I also like books by Jacqueline Wilson. They're sad and funny and very realistic in a way. Interviewer What was the last book you read? Hmm, let me think. Oh Julie yes, Millions. It's about two boys who have to spend more than 200,000 pounds in only a few days. This isn't easy so the younger boy keeps asking saints what to do. He actually sees them — and he knows everything about them. I liked it a lot. hank you, Julie. Fred, Fred what about you? I'm not much of a reader. I prefer Youtube. Interviewer Does that mean you Fred don't read? Hey, I didn't say that. I've even got a book with me — look. Interviewer Oh, Pirates of the Fred Caribbean — Dead Man's Chest. I've seen the film. I didn't know there was a book. Yeah, it came out after the film. Interviewer So you're reading it Fred because you liked the film so much. That's right. It's an easy read. And I really like the films. So,  you like to read Fred books of films? That's right. Interviewer Right, Fred. Thanks a lot. Lisa What about you, Lisa? I quite like reading. Historical novels mostly; or books about politics and history. Interviewer Really? Lisa Yes, I did two projects in history last term. Mostly I read about the Nazi times. Interviewer So you like Anne Frank Lisa and When Hitler Stole the Pink Rabbit and stuff like that? Of course, I do. But I've read lots of other books as well, like The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas or Once by that Australian writer. What's that one about? Lisa About a little boy in Poland at the time of the Nazis. He's looking for his parents. It's a really sad, sad book, and I think it's as good as the striped pyjamas. Interviewer Thank you. And you, Farid Farid, what about you? I'm totally into fantasy. Of course, I've read the Harry Potter books, and Lord of the Rings. But I've read Philip Pullman's His Dark Materials, too, it's a really great trilogy. Interviewer Right. And what are you reading at the moment? One of the ArtemisFarid Fowl books. Tell us about it. Farid Well, they're books by an Irish writer, Colfer, and Artemis Fowl is a 12-year-old master criminal. In the first book he wants to steal gold from the fairies, and that's how he gets in touch with fairies like Captain Holly Short. In the other books he has a lot of adventures — looking for his lost father, helping the fairies and so on. Sounds good. So would you call yourself a reader? Definitely. I love books.Farid Interviewer And now — what about you, Soo-Min. Do you like reading? Soo-min Actually, I do, but I've got little time for it because I'm in a band. I see. So if you find time, Interviewer what do you read? Soo-min Mostly stuff on the internet — about music. And one or two music magazines. No books? Interviewer Soo-min Not many, but if I find a novel which is about singers or a band or music, then I read that. Interviewer Can you give us an example? Mmmm — let me think. Ah yes, Solo by Kwame Alexander. It's about a boy, Blade, who is 17 and totally into songwriting. Interviewer And what did you like about it? Soo-min That Blade for some time loses his interest in music but finds it again in Ghana — despite a lot of difficulties. And there are lots of references to famous songs, so when reading the book, I listened to all of them. Interviewer Thank you, Soo-min. That sounds like an interesting book.


Which is true of Max? He preferred the book. He liked the book and the film the same. He preferred the film


Prez is an orphan and lives in a home for orphans, called The Temporary. One summer he goes to spend some time with a farmer and his family where he meets Sputnik, a small alien from outer space. Sputnik is the only person Prez speaks to and only Prez sees Sputnik as he really is. The family just see a small dog. Listen to the passage when Prez first meets Sputnik and answer the Questions

Folk think that if you're not talking you're not listening. But that's not true. For instance, I was the only one who heard the doorbell the night that Sputnik came. It was a Wednesday. Tea was spicy chicken wings, salad and baked potatoes. We'd finished eating and everyone was clearing up in the kitchen. The doorbell rang. The family didn't hear it because they were all shouting. "Why is everyone shouting?' "The radio's too loud. We have to shout to be heard." "No. The radio is loud so I can hear it over the shouting. If there wasn't shouting, the radio would be quiet." The doorbell rang again. I never answer doors, because answering doors means you have to speak to someone, sometimes a stranger even. The doorbell rang again. Then I thought, What if it's my grandad?! I used to live with my grandad, but he got into a wee spot of bother and had to be taken away. That's how I ended up in the Children's Temporary. They said that if Grandad could get himself sorted out, he would be allowed to come back and I could go and live with him again. Maybe this was Grandad — all sorted out and coming to take me back to the flat in Traquair Gardens. Maybe I was going home. So I answered the door. But it wasn't Grandad. It was Sputnik. I have to describe him because there's a lot of disagreement about what he looks like: Height and age — about the same as me. Clothes — unusual. For instance: slightly-too-big jumper, kilt, leather helmet like the ones pilots wear in war movies, with massive goggles. Weapons — a massive pair of scissors stuffed into his belt like a sword. There were other weapons but I didn't know about them then or I definitely wouldn't have let him in. Luggage — a big yellow backpack. I now know he more or less never takes that backpack off. Name — Sputnik, though that's not what he said to start with. Manners — not good. My grandad always says that good manners are important. "Good manners tell you what to do when you don't know what to do," he says. Sputnik put his hand out to me, so I shook it. That's good manners. But Sputnik did not shake back. Instead Sputnik grabbed my hand with both of his and swung himself in through the door, using my arms like a rope. 


In Catherine MacPhail’s The Evil Within she tells the story of a young Henry Jekyll and a beast that runs wild in Edinburgh. The action is set before the events in Robert Louis Stevenson’s famous novella The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (1886).In this extract, Henry talks to Mary, a servant girl in the Jekyll-household. 
Good morning, Mary." It is a moment before I dare to go on. "I believe you had a very exciting night last night." Her face flushes. Even her freckles seem to glow. "Oh, sir, what a night it was indeed," then she stops. Her hand flies to her mouth. "Get back in there, words," she cries. "Don't you dare come out!" I smile. Mary always makes me smile. "No, Mary," I say. "Please tell me everything. No one else will. It will be our secret. Did you see the creature? Is he really a monster?" She says nothing for a moment. I can see she is unsure whether to obey* me, or to obey everyone else in the house, Mrs Kerrand her mistress, my mother. At last, I win. Mary answers my question. "I didn't see him myself, no, sir," she says. "My mother wouldn't allow her to look at him in case their eyes crossed forever." When she sees my smile she shakes her head. "That can happen you know, sir." I nod and try to look serious. "I believe so." "But my father saw him clear as day," she goes on. "He said he was bent double*, out of shape, a strange creature with hair over his face and long nails like the claws of a bird on his feet and on his hands. And blood and scratches all over him." She pauses. "That would be from all the killing he does." I can picture him myself, crawling through the alleys of the Old Town, scratching with those long nails at windows and doors. My heart beats faster. "But has he killed anyone, Mary?" Mary does not hesitate for a second. "Oh yes, sir, for sure. Cats and stray dogs he has killed, we know that. But there will be more, everyone is saying it." She nods her head. "Oh yes, sir. The bodies will turn up soon. You wait and see." "Has he confessed?" I ask her. Now she shakes her head. "Not yet, sir." She sounds disappointed. "He doesn't talk at all. He grunts and roars like an animal. Oh I am so glad he's been caught, sir." "So am I," I tell her. "You will tell me if you hear anything else, Mary?" "Oh, I don't know, sir." Her nose scrunches . I’m always being told I talk too much." "I won't tell, I promise," I say. I take a step closer to her. "You are the only one I can rely on, Mary." Her face beams with pleasure. "Then you can rely on me, sir. If I hear any more about the Beast, I will be sure to let you know."

Mary isn't very excited about the incident*. Mary shouldn't tell young Jekyll about the monster. Henry promises it'll be their secret. 
Mary isn't sure who to obey. Mary believes when looking at a monster your eyes may remain crossed forever. The blood and the scratches on the creature came from all the killing.
What evidence is there that the creature they caught is the monster? He has killed cats and stray dogs. He doesn't talk at all and he grunts and roars like an animal.
How does Henry react to Mary's story? He wants to know if the monster has confessed. 
What does he make Mary promise? If she hears anything about the Beast, she should let him know.


Jessica and Stern aren't going to the cinema any more. 2 Mr Ricks runs a theatre group at the school. 3 Liam goes with Jessica to interview Mr Ricks. 4 Linda is Stern's new girlfriend. 5 Stern thinks Jessica likes Liam. 
He says that because they aren't going anywhere. She says that it's 0K for her, but on the inside she feels disappointed. Stern says that he's got something else to do. He dreamt about Jessica and Liam in the park together. He smiles and feels very relieved. He thinks that Jessica is disappointed because Liam's got a new girlfriend.






