Would you like to travel into space? Why / Why not? 2 What facts do you know about space travel? 

Paying Passengers: In 1984, the engineering company McDonnell Douglas gave NASA $66,000 to take Charlie Walker, a person who worked for them, on their STS-41D flight to do some research. In 2001, Dennis Tito paid $20 million to become officially the world's first space tourist

A day in space: A  space shuttle takes 90 minutes to orbit the Earth. In these 90 minutes, daylight and night time constantly change for the astronauts. In fact, they see 16 sunsets and 16 sunrises! Altogether, 45 minutes of the journey are spent in daylight, and 45 minutes in the dark. 

Eating in space: Astronauts on the shuttle can choose from about 100 different food items and 50 drinks. However, a word of warning - the taste of food often changes in space and your favourite food on the ground might taste disgusting 200 kilometres above the Earth.

A message on the moon: Everyone knows that Neil Armstrong was the first man to walk on the moon. But did you know that his Apollo 11 mission left a plaque on the moon? It says, Here men from the planet Earth first set foot upon the Moon. July 1969, A.D. We came in peace for all mankind.

When things go wrong: Space travel has always been a dangerous business. Two of the most tragic accidents in the last 30 years were the Challenger and Columbia space shuttle disasters. The Challenger exploded after 1 minute of its flight in 1986. In 2003, the Columbia broke up when it re-entered the Earth's atmosphere. On both flights all seven members of the crew died.

The race for space
Human history is full of stories of explorers who have risked their lives to go places no one has ever been before - from the top of the highest mountain to the bottom of the deepest sea. Would you like to join them? You can win 10 million dollars at the same time!

We offer the Ansari X Prize to the first people to build a spaceship that can be used more than once. Interested? Here are the rules:
The spaceship must be able to carry three adults. The spaceship must reach a height of 100 km. This height is where a space orbit begins. The spaceship must return with no damage and no injury to any of the crew. A second flight must be made within two weeks, using the same spacecraft. No government money can be used in the project. Does that sound easy? What are you waiting for?


The race for space is over. The ten million dollar Ansari X Prize has been won by a rocket called SpaceShipOne. The privately-owned spaceship flew up to a height of 1 15 km, 15 km more than the height that the rules asked for. The flight took place yesterday, Monday 4th October. It was SpaceShipOne's second flight in a week. The rules demanded that the winning spaceship should do two flights in two weeks. "Today we have made history. Today we go to the stars," said Peter Diamandis, one of the men who created the prize. The prize was offered to try and create an interest in private space travel. Many people believe this will be a multibillion-dollar business in a few years with people paying a lot of money to take a trip on rockets like SpaceShipOne. Pilot Brian Binnie described the flight as 'great' with a little roll. He also described the view as incredible. He was welcomed on the ground by all his family and Paul Allen, who put forward the money for the project. He was also met by businessman Richard Branson. Richard Branson has recently started Virgin Galactic and has plans to start commercial flights using SpaceShipOne technology. Branson believes he will be able to offer space flights for about $200,000. He also hopes to fly 3,000 people into space over the next Five years. 

The Price is a story about a girl called Emily who loves to paint. Look at the pictures. What kind of things does she paint?
The Price
Emily was a quiet kid. She didn't say much, even to her mother. Her father was always too busy to listen anyway. She never caused any problems. Her grades at school were good. She got on well with everyone. So her mother never worried. Until the space paintings.

Emily had always loved to paint and she was good at it, too — very good. She spent all her pocket money on paint and paper. When she was seven, she'd started painting. At first it had always been animals, flowers and other things that she saw out of her bedroom window. As she got older, her subjects changed: cars, then people and then sports events. Nothing strange there. But then one day Emily found something new to paint — scenes of outer space. But these weren't pictures of Mars or Saturn and its rings. These were paintings of 4 44 weird and wonderful worlds. They showed alien cities on a planet that had three suns. And there were strange forests where strange animals lived. Emily's mother sometimes looked at the paintings and although she didn't know why, she felt a little bit scared. There was something a bit too real about the scenes. She asked her daughter where her ideas came from. "They're places I go at night," she explained. "What, in your dreams?" she asked. "Yeah, sort of," Emily replied.

Emily's mother wanted to talk to her husband about the pictures, but she didn't. Emily's father was a writer. A few years before, he had written a very successful science-fiction series for TV. He was famous and got lots of work. But now people were starting to forget about him, because he hadn't come up with anything good for a long time. So he had become depressed. He didn't want to talk to anyone and he often got angry very quickly if someone disturbed him. Emily was in her room. She had run out of paint, but she had no pocket money left. She couldn't disturb her dad. He was in his office and no one was allowed to go in there — not even Emily's mother. Emily didn't want to wait, so she picked up some of her paintings and set off for the art shop. She explained to the owner that she needed some paint, but she hadn't got any money. She asked the man if he wanted to buy some of her space scenes. "0K," said the man, "I'll give you €20 for all four of them." Emily didn't think twice. She took the money, bought some paint and ran home. A few days later, Emily's dad was walking past the art shop when he stopped and looked in the window. He saw the four paintings that Emily had done and was fascinated by them. He walked into the shop and bought them.

Emily's dad took the paintings home and put them on the wall in his office. He sat down in his chair, looked at the paintings and started to write. For the next week, neither Emily nor her mother saw her dad. Day after day, night after night, he locked himself in his office. All they heard was the sound of him working at his computer. Then one day he came out of the office. They had never seen him so happy. "It's finished," he told them. "My masterpiece." A week later they were celebrating. The TV studio had loved his ideas for his new series and they were going to start filming it as soon as possible. A famous Hollywood actor was going to be in it. The series was simply called Alien Worlds. The next morning, Emily's mum went into her daughter's bedroom. There was no sign of Emily. Her mum knew that something was wrong. She shouted for her husband. He came quickly. The window was open. They looked into the garden, but there was no sign of Emily. Then they walked over to the table where Emily usually did her painting. There was a picture lying there. For some reason they didn't want to look, but they had to. It was Emily's most perfect picture ever — an alien spaceship taking off from Earth. Emily's father looked at the picture more closely. There at the door was a teenage girl. It was Emily. Emily's father and mother looked at each other. They knew she was never coming back.

When might this happen? 2 What are the greatest challenges? 3 Where would we go? 4 Who would be the first humans to go? 5 How might future humans evolve? 6 Why would we want to live in space?


Life in Space - Science-fiction or reality?

Why would we want to live in Space?
There are several answers. Firstly, we're simply running out of space. There are now more than 7.5 billion people living on our planet and this number is rising every day. There is a danger that one day wewill use up all of the resources we need to live upon our planet. If this happens, we won't have a choice, wewill need to look to outer space for places to live. In fact, the world-famous scientist Stephen Hawking has predicted that we only have another 1,000 years before the Earth will be uninhabitable.
Secondly, human beings have always liked to explore and go further. There are few places on Earth that we haven't been to. Space is the next great challenge. We already have the technology to take off from our planet and the technology we need to set up homes elsewhere in our solar system is not so far away. Soon there will be nothing to stop us from going to places we once thought were impossible to reach.
Where would we go?
There are two options. Our new homes may be enormous spaceships that orbit around the Earth, like the moon. An Austro-Hungarian rocket scientist called Herman Pototnik first had this idea in the 1920s. He imagined huge circular crafts* that rotate to create an artificial gravity*. They would also use a large mirror to focus the sun's light which could be used for energy. There could be many of these spaceships floating above the Earth, each one inhabited by thousands of people. 

The population of Earth is more than 7.5 billion and rising every day. Stephen Hawking thought we can only survive on the Earth for another 1,000 years. The spaceships that Herman Potoönik talked about were huge and circular in shape. 4 On Mars we would live in biospheres because it would be too dangerous to live on the surface of the planet. we would need to create an atmosphere like Earth's. it would be easier to control the experiment. 5 Colonising outside our solar system would be too expensive. impractical. impossible. 6 Food and water would have to come from the new colony. Earth. new technologies. 

There might be serious problems with bones and muscles, bad headaches and problems with the eyes. 8 It wanted to show how people living in these new environments might behave. 9 Because our bodies adapt to living with lower gravity.

The second option is to set up our new homes on other planets or moons. The idea is to build enormous dome-shaped tents called biospheres on the surface and then create the same conditions as Earth inside them so that people could live inside them. The most likely place for this to happen is Mars, probably because it's the closest planet to us, but scientists think it may also be possible on a few of the moons of Jupiter. There are no plans though to find new homes outside our solar system because of the enormous amount of time it would take to travel to them. 
What are the greatest challenges?

There are many. One of the biggest would be the need for the new colony to become self-sufficient* as soon as possible - that is for the people living there to find sources of food and water. It would not be possible to rely on Earth for these. Then there are the challenges to our bodies. Living in an atmosphere with lower levels of gravity can lead to serious problems with bones and muscles. It also causes increased pressure in the head causing bad headaches and problems with the eyes.

And finally we would need to look seriously at how the people living in these new environments might behave. A research project called The Mars-500 was set up to look at this. Six people were locked in a small room for 520 days - the time it would take to travel to the planet. Three of them suffered serious psychological or physical problems.

How might future humans evolve?

The big question is would we be able to reproduce* in space? If we were, then over time each colony would start to develop its own culture and possibly start speaking new languages. There would also probably be physical changes over generations as our bodies adapt to living with lower gravity. We might use genetic engineering to design new organs that let us breathe carbon dioxide, which would mean we could leave the biospheres and start living on the surface of our new planet.

Do you think the colonisation of space will happen in your lifetime? Why (not)? 2 Would you like the idea of living in space? Why (not)? 3 Imagine you had to leave Earth, what would you miss most? 4 You can only take three items, what would they be?

It was exactly ten years after Emily had left. Her mum and dad were in her room. They hadn't changed anything and they came here every day to think of their daughter. Suddenly Emily's mum saw something strange. 
The flight had been long and tiring for Emily, but she was glad to be back in her real world. She landed her spaceship close to the city. The commander was waiting for her at headquarters. "l have an important message for you," he said. 
Claire, a girl from Emily's class, was sitting in her room. She wanted toc check her emails when suddenly a window popped up on the screen on her computer. "Click here if you want to help a friend," it said. At first, Claire didn't want to open it, but then she clicked on the window.

Astronauts can choose from 100 different food items. The Challenger broke up when it re-entered the Earth's atmosphere. When Emily's mother looked at the paintings, she felt a little bit uncomfortable. She picked up some of her paintings. 

We already have the technology to take off from our planet She got on well with everyone. She set off for the art shop. She'd run out of paint, but she had no pocket money left. He hadn't come up with anything good for a long time. The second option is to set up our new homes on other planets or moons.

set off: start (a journey, a trip)
take off: leave the ground and go into the sky
set up: to build, make, or start a new life or business
come up with: think of an idea
get on with: have a relationship with
run out of: finished completely

Liam shows Jessica the photos on his camera. The photos on the camera are of ghosts. Liam's school-bag goes missing from the computer lab. Lucy has the key to the4ibeaeyr They tell the headmaster the photos are of a football match.
believes they've got a really big story. leaves the camera in the lab. doesn't believe the photos are of UFOs. suggests that aliens have taken the camera. tells the headmaster that the photos are of a sports match. is embarrassed by their visit to the headmaster.


