What's so great about July? The next issue of the school magazine is all about our favourite month - July! And we want to know what makes it so great. Send us your ideas.
Fly High: Five Oaks Middle School Magazine
July around the world. A letter from the editor. Hi, Welcome to the new edition of FLY HIGH, the school magazine of Five Oaks Middle School. The last two weeks have been terribly busy for the magazine team, thanks to you. You sent us so many great ideas, photos and texts — a clear sign that making July around the world the topic for this issue was a good choice. Whenever you decide to read this edition — right now before the end of the school year, or later during the holidays when you're lying on the beach, climbing in the Himalayas, scuba-diving (sorry, there isn't a water-proof edition of FLY HIGH), or whatever — enjoy your holidays! With best wishes from me and the team, Claire, 4a

Imagine your perfect festival. Which five artists/bands would play? Read the text below quickly and find the names of five artists/bands who played at the Guilfest. Morning Runner, Nizlopi, Gary Numan, Big Wednesday, Billy Ido

Olivia went with her elder brother Daniel. The festival lasts three days. She got autographs from John and Luke of Nizlopi and Gary Numan. They stayed at a campsite. You can go to the Guildford outdoor swimming pool or visit the theatre tent. The festival is held in Stoke Park.

Chill out at the Guilfest. Want some ideas for things to do in July? Here's my highlight from last July. My elder brother Daniel and I went to the Four Guilfest in Guildford. What is it? A three-day festival with six stages. It started on Friday and went on for three days. Great bands! I liked Morning Runner, Nizlopi, Gary Numan, Big Wednesday and Billy Idol best. As far as autographs go, I was really successful. I got autographs from John and Luke of Nizlopi and one from Gary Numan. Daniel's been going to the Guilfest for a couple of years. And know what he told me? The first time Nizlopi came to the Guilfest, they played in a tent with about a thousand people in it. When they'd been playing for some time, they got off the stage and went down in the middle of the crowd. Suddenly two or three people sat down and then everyone else did the same. Daniel says that it was a really special moment. Everyone kept really quiet, and Daniel says he had the feeling that the band were playing just for him. We camped at the Guilfest and if you have the money, you can rent a camper. And if you get tired of listening to the bands, you can walk over to the Guildford outdoor swimming pool and spend some time there. Four more things I liked: here's a big leisure centre nearby. So having a shower's not a problem. Stoke Park, where the festival's held, is really beautiful. There was a theatre tent, too. We went to the Guilfest for the music, of course, but it's nice to have something else to do occasionally. Last but not least, the toilets were clean.
bout 400 boys and girls apply to become a BBG every year. b In some serves, the ball can reach speeds of more than 160 kph. c The ticket for a match costs about l,500. d You must be at least 14 years old to apply to become a BBG. Accidents that can happen to BBGs. How difficult it is to get a ticket. How to get into Wimbledon without paying. How popular Wimbledon is. Minimum age for BBGs. How fit BBGs need to be. How BBGs are chosen. How being a BBG can help you in later life. 

Wimbledon for free. Thousands of people would love to get a ticket for the world's most important tennis tournament at the end of June / beginning of July every year. But only a few of them actually get a chance to see the matches live, for a price of about l,500 per match! But you can get in for free -honestly! If you're keen on tennis, know the rules and are in year 10 (so at least 14 years old!). Why? Because then you can apply to become a ball boy or girl (a BBG, as they are called) in next year's tournament. But don't think it's easy! About 400 boys and girls apply to become a BBG every year, but only 200 are chosen, after they've been for training (four times a week, from mid-February to mid-July). BBGs don't get paid. But if you've been a BBG, it can help later when you’re looking for a job. “If you were a BBG as a teenager, it tells the interviewer that you’ve probably got a lot of discipline,” says Kay Williams, a BBG some years ago herself and now a student at Oxford University. What's so difficult about picking up a tennis ball?" you might ask. Sorry, but you have no idea! Being a BBG can be tough. When you apply, for example, you have to show that you can run for twelve minutes and stand still for four minutes! And it can be dangerous! One year, a ball boy broke his leg running into the net during a match. He finished the match and then he was taken to hospital! And don't forget that in some of the serves, the ball can reach speeds of more than 160 kph. A few years ago, a BBG called Abdalla was hit by a 200 kph serve from champion Pete Sampras. "The crowd let out an 'Ooooh', and it hurt, but I had to smile and keep going," he said. And in 1995, Tim Henman was disqualified from Wimbledon for hitting a ball at a ball girl's head! As you can see, there are easier things than being a BBG at Wimbledon. But not many are as interesting! 


How long the Mangani festival lasts. What people wear in the Mangani festival. The story behind the Mangani festival. Where the Mangani festival takes place. Nayana's grandmother lives in southern India. In the Mangani Festival, people carry a picture of Shiva. They also throw ripe mangoes. Nayana's mum told her story behind the legend. Karaikal's husband gave his wife two mangoes. Karaikal was scared because she had given the second mango away. Karaikal told her husband that the second mango was a present from Shiva. Nayana wants to see the people who walk over red-hot coals.

A festival in Southern India: Hurray! In July I'm going to visit my grandmother in Pondicherry in southern India. There's an interesting event there, the Mangani Festival. It lasts for a month. A picture of the god Shiva is carried through the streets and people go to the roof of their houses and throw ripe mangoes. Imagine a ripe mango hitting your head! Wham! Ouch! I asked my mum about the legend behind the festival. Here's what she told me. Karaikal Ammaiyar was the wife of a rich man. One day, her husband got two very good mangoes as a present. He gave them to his wife to keep for him. Then he went to work. A little later, a beggar arrived at the house. (In fact, it was the god Shiva.) Karaikal wanted to give the poor beggar some food, so she gave him some rice and one of the mangoes. When her husband came back from work, he ate the other mango with his lunch. The mango tasted so good that he wanted the second one. His wife was scared of her husband's reaction and didn't know what to do. So she prayed to Shiva and suddenly, there was a mango in her hand. She gave it to her husband and told him that it was a present from Shiva. Her husband didn't believe her. So she went away and prayed again. And suddenly another mango was in her hands. From that day on, her husband believed whatever his wife said. Mum said that there's another festival in July, too. In the other one, people dressed in yellow clothes who haven't eaten for 40 days walk over red-hot coals. I must really see that, but I don't think I'll try it. See you in September. Best, Nayana


Amy is very much looking forward to July. For the first week she wants to do nothing at all, even though her mum expects her to take care of her little sister. After chilling out for a week she's got a summerjob lined up for a few weeks. This means she won't be able to catch up on some Netflix series, but she really quite enjoys her job at the ice cream parlour and she is glad she can earn some money and save up for some clothes. She'll be going away in August, but doesn't yet know where. Adrian is also looking forward to July, because he'll be off to Scotland. He's going to be involved in a summer camp project and will be taking care of a group of 1 2-year-olds. He'll help out the official camp leaders and go rafting with the kids. He's looking forward to that because he is a very active person. Every afternoon he has three hours to himself so he won't have to work all the time. To kill time he'll be taking up a new sport, taekwondo. Adrian can stay at the camp for free, the course is very cheap and in addition he'll get some pocket money.

So, Amy, are you Looking Forward to July? Like Always, Holidays, you know. Sure. Have you made any plans? I've got LOTS of plans, but I won’t have time for all of them. I’ll see what I can actually do. For the first week I’m going to do nothing. Just relax and forget all about school. I’m sure Mum will want me to help out around the house, but my only plans are to chill out. Just hang out with your Friends - that sort of Thing? Not even that. As I said - just do Nothing. And after that week? I would like to catch up on some reading, but I'm afraid I won't have the time. Why's that? Well, I've got a summer Job for the rest of July and the first week of August. A job? And you're still looking forward to July? Actually yes. It's in an ice cream parlour. I've worked there before and it's fun. Lots of people coming, so it's never boring. And then I want to make some money, because in August I'm going away for two weeks and I have to save up money for my trip. Any plans for where you want to go? Not really. Let's see how much money I make and where it could take me. Right. Well then, thank you for talking to me and all the best for your July. It's a pleasure. 

Hi, Adrian. I suppose you're looking forward to July, too. I sure am. I've got an interesting July ahead. Here at home? Definitely not. I'd do anything but stay at home. Actually I'm off to Scotland. On holiday? No, I'm getting involved with a summer camp project. I'll be taking care of a group of 10-year-old children. Take them hiking things like that. I also have to help out the camp leaders too. Sounds good. You don't mind working all day long in your holidays? Not at all. I'm a very active person, I'm good with kids, and I don't have to work all day. I've got four hours to myself every afternoon. In a camp? What are you going to do to kill time? Oh, it's not like that. They're offering various courses, and I might take up a new sport. They're offering taekwondo and I've always been interested to learn that. Tat's that Korean martial arts thing, isn't Yes, it is. So you see, I won't be bored. Do you also get money or is it a voluntary thing, taking care of kids? I get some pocket money, and I stay there for free. And the course is for free, too. And as I said — this is what I like doing, so I'm totally 0K with it. Great! Have a good time, Adrian, and enjoy your Taekwondo. Thank you. 

Sales of The Mag are going down. The last issue of the magazine sold 120 copies. Miss Elliot is the school librarian. Liam suggests putting a horoscope column. Nick wants to do a music column in the magazine. In the end, Jessica gets a really good idea. Lucy is worried because sales of The Mag are going down. 2 Last year Lucy had to promise Tyler to go to the cinema with him if he won the raffle. 3 Miss Elliot says that hardly any students come to the library any more. 4 Because he didn't give her good advice on what dress to wear to a party. 5 Because other kids don't like his taste in music.
