Welcome to Ireland

The capital of the Republic of Ireland is Belfast. There are about five million people in the Republic of Ireland. The official languages of Ireland are English and Irish. More than a million Irish people are fluent in Irish. Irish is spoken primarily in the west of Ireland. The Republic of Ireland is not a member of the EU. The Irish money is the pound. The Republic of Ireland is part of the United Kingdom. Ireland exports a lot of software. Northern Ireland is not part of the10 Republic of Ireland. The capital of Northern Ireland is Derry. Most Irish people in the Republic12 are Catholics.

A very short history of Ireland

Why do Irish football fans never support or cheer for England? History is the answer. For many centuries the Irish fought against the British and hundreds of thousands of Irish people were killed.


In September 1845, the situation of the people in Ireland was dramatic. A fungus destroyed the potato crop. The following year, there were no potatoes again. While many poor people in Ireland were starving, Protestant Irish landlords sent badly needed grain and cattle to England to sell it there. The British government didn't help either, because they believed that a government should not interfere with the economy. One official said in 1846, "It is not our intention at all to export food for the use of the people of Ireland."
There were about eight million people in Ireland in 1850. While they were trying to find food, one million of them died and between 1845 and 1855 another two million fled to the USA, Australia and New Zealand. After the famine, the population never rose to the level of eight million again.
In the late 19th century Charles Stewart Parnell and others fought for 'Home Rule'. They wanted autonomy, but it took some time to become independent. In 1916, the 'Easter Rebellion' of the Irish was put down by the British and 15 leaders of the rebellion were shot. A guerrilla war followed. In 1922, the Irish Free State was founded. But the Irish had to pay a price. Of the 32 counties in Ireland only 26 formed the Free State.
The province of Ulster (which is today part of Northern Ireland) and its six counties, where the majority of the people were Protestant, did not become part of the Free State, then known as the Republic of Ireland. What followed in Northern Ireland was a period called 'the Troubles'. It began in the late 1960s when Catholic groups (most famous: the IRA), , who wanted to join the Republic of Ireland, and Protestant groups, who wanted to stay with the UK, began to fight each other. One of the most famous incidents was the Bloody Sunday Massacre. On 30th January 1972, the British Army shot dead 13 civilians (one more man died later). This was the largest number killed in one day and Irish Catholics hated the British Army even more. All in all more than 3,500 people were killed in the conflict, which more or less ended in 1998 with the Good Friday Agreement. In 2007, the British government called its soldiers home. In 2012 former IRA commander Martin McGuiness formally shook hands with Queen Elizabeth II in Belfast. Hopefully this will really be the end of the Troubles forever.

Interviewer  I’m doing interviews on foreigners in Dublin. Can I ask you some questions? Anna Sure, go ahead. Interviewer  Can you tell me your name and where you’re from? Anna I’m Anna and I’m from Denmark. Interviewer  What are you doing here in Dublin? Are you a tourist? Anna No, I’m not. I’m an au pair. I’m looking after two small children. Interviewer  What are your reasons for coming to Dublin? Anna Dublin’s the place to be. It’s cool and I want to improve my English. Interviewer  Come on, your English is excellent. Anna Thank you. But I still have to learn a lot. Interviewer  Anna, can you tell me what you like about Dublin? Anna The people. I like the Irish. Most people are very friendly and relaxed. And it’s easy to make friends. And there’s a lot going on. Concerts and stuff. Interviewer  Do you think Dublin is an expensive place? Anna Nowhere is more expensive than Denmark. No seriously: I learnt at school that Ireland is now one of the richest countries in the European Union. And that there was a crisis back then in 2008, when there was a global crisis anyway, which lasted for some years. But from 2014 onwards everything was getting better and better – people earn more money and things are becoming more expensive. But my family here say that Ireland is a success story! Interviewer  They would, wouldn’t they? Anna Of course. But a lot of people seem to be doing pretty well. A lot of big companies pay their taxes here, and only here. That helps the economy, I suppose. Interviewer  Is there anything you don’t like? Anna Yeah, public transport. There’s no underground. It sometimes takes quite a while to get from A to B on a bus with all the traffic. Interviewer  What about LUAS, the new tram system? Anna It’s OK, but there are only two lines. They do have a cool website though. Interviewer  What’s your favourite place in Dublin, the place you like best? Anna Phoenix Park. It’s wonderful to have a picnic there when the weather’s nice. Interviewer  Do you like the zoo in Phoenix Park? Anna It’s OK, but it’s a bit on the small side, isn’t it? Interviewer  Yeah, that’s true. What do you think about the weather in Dublin? Anna It’s not much better in Denmark. It’s a good idea to take your jacket with you. Always. Interviewer Thanks for the interview, Anna Track 6 Anna. That's alright.

What's on in Dublin

Art: Inside, Outside  and Beyond. Celebrating thirty years of painting in the National Botanic Gardens. See Gerard Byrne's spectacular garden paintings at the National Botanic Gardens. Opening times: Admission free.
Theatre: Ulysses: Dermot Bolger's version of James Joyce's Ulysses was a massive hit at last year's Dublin Theatre Festival. Now at the Abbey Theatre at 8 p.m. Tickets: €13 - €45 
Music: Damien Dempsey: Iveagh Gardens, Clonmel Street. Known as one of Ireland's greatest singer-songwriters, Damien Dempsey offers a very special summer outdoor gig in Dublin's stunning Iveagh Gardens. Tickets: €40 


Exhibitions: Irish Famine Exhibition: Explore the Irish Potato Famine of 1845 to 1852, also known as the Great Hunger. Stephen's Green Shopping Centre, 12:00 to 18:00. Tickets: €6 - 

Sightseeing: Guided Cliff Walk Tours: Martello Tower Donabate, New Road, Donabate Enjoy a guided walking tour from the Martello Tower in Donabate to the Martello Tower in Portrane, taking in the stunning views along the cliff walk and a history of the local sights along the coastline in North County Dublin from your guide. Tickets: €12 - €20 (There are reduced rates for children and groups.)
The Botanic Gardens are open for ten hours. The cheapest tickets to see the play are €15. Damien Dempsey is playing songs outside. The potato famine lasted ten years. If you do the tour with other people you can get cheaper tickets. 

Teacher Boy I Teacher Boy 2 Teacher Boy 2 Teacher Boy 3 Boy 4 Teacher Boy 4 Teacher Boy 3 Teacher Boy 3 Teacher Boy 2 Teacher Boy 2 Teacher Today we're going to Glendalough, one of the famous sights in Ireland. Glendalough means valley of the two lakes. Can we swim there? You can, but the water's pretty cold. Can we ride jet skis? Sorry Harry, but it's a national park, jet skis aren't allowed. How boring. You might see wild goats and interesting birds. Irish girls in school uniforms? Frightening. What about grub? I'd be happier if you spoke proper English, Stephen. Sorry sir, what about grub, I mean food? Well, there's a small shop at the upper lake where you can buy food. The coach will park at the information centre and then we'll walk up to the upper lake. Is it far to walk? No, about half an hour. Sir, can't the coach take us to the lake? No, because on the way we'll look at the place where the famous Saint Kevin and the monks lived in the 6th century. The 6th century before or after Christ? John, I think I'll throw you in the famous bell tower and keep you there. Just kidding, sir. Sorry. What's so interesting about the bell tower? It was an ideal hiding place for the monks when they were attacked. The door is several metres above the ground. You need a ladder to get up there. When the monks climbed up, they pulled the ladder up, and they were safe! There's one other Thing...


Oscar Wilde (1854-1900) was one of the great Irish writers. He was born in Dublin and studied there and at Oxford in the UK. Wilde is the author of many short stories such as The Happy Prince, a famous novel which shocked people back then (The Picture of Dorian Gray) and many plays such as The Importance of Being Earnest. He died in a hotel room in Paris in 1900. One of his stories is The Canterville Ghost (1887). It has been filmed several times. It is about the Otises - an American family who buy the Canterville Chase, an old house, from the English Lord Canterville. With it comes a ghost that has haunted the house for 800 years. The Otises do not believe in ghosts, and when they meet Sir Simon, the ghost, they are not scared. This depresses the ghost; everybody makes fun of him and only young Virginia Otis takes pity on him.

suddenly Mrs Otis caught sight of a dull red mark on the floor just by the fireplace and, quite unconscious of what it really meant, said to Mrs Umney, "I'm afraid something has been spilt there." "Yes, madam," replied the old housekeeper in a low voice, "blood has been spilt on that spot." "How horrible," cried Mrs Otis. "I don't care for bloodstains in a sitting room. It must be removed at once!" The old woman smiled, and answered in a low, mysterious voice, "It is the blood of Lady Eleanore de Canterville, who was murdered on that very spot by her husband, Sir Simon de Canterville, in 1572. Sir Simon survived her by nine years, and disappeared suddenly in very mysterious circumstances. His body has never been discovered, but he still haunts* the castle as a ghost. The bloodstain has been much admired by tourists and others, and cannot be removed." "That is all nonsense," cried Washington Otis. "Pinkerton's Champion Stain Remover and Paragon Detergent* will clean it up in no time." And before the terrified housekeeper could interfere he had fallen upon his knees, and was rapidly scouring* the floor with a small stick of what looked like a black cosmetic. In a few moments no sign of the bloodstain could be seen. "I knew Pinkerton would do it," he exclaimed triumphantly as he looked round at his admiring family; he had hardly finished the sentence when a terrible flash of lightning lit up the dark room, a frightening clap of thunder made them all jump to their feet, and Mrs Umney fainted*. The next morning, however, when they came down to breakfast, they found the terrible stain of blood once again on the floor. "I don't think it can be the fault of the Paragon Detergent," said Washington, "for I have tried it with everything. It must be the ghost." He then rubbed out the stain a second time, but the following morning it appeared again.

Liam is new to their school. T / F 2 He wants to be a journalist on The Mag. T / F 3 Lucy chooses more of Liam’s photos than Nick’s photos. T / F 4 Liam took all of his photos off the net. T / F 5 Lucy didn’t know about Nick and Liam’s competition. T / F 6 Lucy agrees to give Liam a second chance
Liam is new at the school and wants to join the newspaper team. When Nick hears that Liam is also a photographer, he isn't happy or pleased. Lucy wants five photographs from each of them so she can choose from them. Nick suggests to Liam that the one whose photos get picked should stay on. Liam's photos are brilliant, but the others find out he got them off the internet. Lucy says Liam can't work with them.


