The curious case of the locked room

Police Crime Report: Victim, crime - murder, weapon, date, time of report, reporting officer, investigating officers, suspects

Scene 1: At police headquarters:
Excuse me, Inspector. What is it, Jenkins? Bad news, I'm afraid. We've just got a call from Murdoch Towers. The offices of the computer king? That's right. There's been a murder. John Murdoch is dead. He has a deep wound in his chest. I don't believe it! Five thirty on a Friday! Let's hope this is an easy one. Come on, Jenkins. Get your coat!

Scene 2: At Murdoch Towers
Inspector, this is Detective Ward. He's the reporting officer. Inspector Fell 0K, Ward. So, what have we got? Detective Ward Well, sir, Murdoch was holding a small office party for just four of his employees. Nobody else was in the building. All the other employees had left. Good. So we know that it was one of them. Most probably. But which one?

Inspector Fell Detective Ward Inspector Fell Detective Ward Inspector Fell Detective Ward Inspector Fell Detective Ward Inspector Fell Detective Ward Inspector Fell That's what I'm going to find out. There is one other thing, Inspector. What? Well, it's very strange, but the room where Murdoch's body was found was locked from the inside. All the witnesses ... You mean suspects. Yes, sir. All the suspects told me the same thing. So you've already questioned everyone? Yes, sir. But only very quickly. What about the murder weapon? We haven't found it. Aha! Can I see your notes? 

Jasper Ford, 40 years with the company, knew Murdoch's father, office clerk
Oliver Wilson, nephew, computer programmer
Isabel Miller, project manager, attractive, was working with Murdoch on top secret project
Charles Dunning, head salesman, bit of a playboy, very good-looking

Scene 3: Sergeant Jenkins and Inspector Fell are looking at Detective Ward's notes
Jasper Ford. 40 years with the company. He's a lot older than the others. And he doesn't have such a good job as all the others. He's just a clerk. All the others at the party have very good positions in the company. What was he doing there, I wonder? He's probably a friend of the family. Or perhaps he had found something out about his boss. Do you think he was blackmailing Mr Murdoch, sir? Perhaps. He probably needs money for his old age. Keep an eye on him. 0K. And what about Oliver Wilson, sir? Have you got any ideas there? The nephew. Hmm, that's difficult. Did John Murdoch have any children? No, sir. Why? 

Well, now that Murdoch's dead, he might be the one who gets the company. Right. And the other two — Charles Dunning and Isabel Miller? Isabel Miller. Hmm. Ward's notes say that she's very pretty. And Murdoch was rich! Maybe she had fallen in love with Murdoch. But then, why would she kill him? I'm not sure. Perhaps the secret project is the key. Let's see. And Dunning? Good-looking and a bit of a playboy. Well, maybe he needs money for gambling, or perhaps he's in love with Isabel Miller and he was angry about her relationship with Murdoch. Well, we've got a lot of ideas then. Yes, let's start the interviews. 

So, Mr Ford. Forty years in the same company in the same job? Why have you stayed here so long? I like it here. I like the family. I was a friend of John Murdoch and I was a friend of his father, too. I see. So that explains why you were at the party. I don't understand. Well, Mr Ford, the party was for the top people in the company. The project manager, the sales manager, the top computer expert. So why were you here and why weren't the other clerks here? Well, I'm an old friend of the family. Maybe you can tell us what happened at the party? It wasn't really a party, it was a little celebration. Business was good last year, so we were all happy. Then Mr Murdoch went to his office to call his wife. How do you know that? He told me. Did anybody else leave the room? We all did at some time. Oliver went to get some more drinks. Isabel went to the ladies' room, I believe. And Charles asked me for some papers, so I went to get them from my office. Have you got those papers? I'm not sure what happened to them. I think they got lost in all the confusion. And what about Charles Dunning? You said everyone had left the room. Well, when Mr Murdoch didn't come back, Charles went to look for him. He came back right away and said that the office was locked. So we all looked around a bit, but we couldn't find Mr Murdoch. Then I said: 'Something's wrong — I think he's still in his office'. There's a sort of small coloured window in the door. You can't really see anything but Miss Miller thought she saw something on the floor and she said let's break the glass. I didn't want to, but she simply went ahead and broke it. I opened the door and we found the body. Someone had killed poor John. So you called the police? Mr Ford Yes, we did. Fell Mr Ford did you notice anything strange About the others at any time? Mr Ford No, I didn't.. I mean everyone seemes really upset. Fell And what About you? What are you going to do now? ell, I was going to stop  work next year but now that Oliver Wilson is the new boss, I think I'll retire. Fell SO Oliver's going to take over the Company? Mr Ford I Guess so. John didn't have any children. Oliver's his closest relative. Fell And you don't like Oliver? Mr Ford Not really. He thinks I'm too old and I think he's too Young. It's as simple as that. Fell And will you have enough Money for your old age, Mr Ford? Mr Ford Of Course I will. I'm only a clerk, Inspector, but John Murdoch Paid me well. As I said, we were good Friends. Fell Thank you, Mr Ford. That's all for now. o, Oliver Wilson. I understand you are now the owner of Murdoch Computers. Congratulations notes. Scene 7. Fell Ms Miller Fell Ms Miller Mr Wilson Thank you — but I didn't Fell kill my uncle. Nobody said you did. So, what can you tell me about the evening? Well, it was just a small party. My uncle and some of his top people. Including Jasper Ford? Well, I don't know why he was there. He probably invited himself. He thinks he's a good friend of the family, but he was going to lose his job. I know my uncle was going to ask him to leave in the new year. Jasper Ford is too old. Interesting, but you were telling me about the Party. Right. Well, we were having a few drinks. At some point my uncle went to phone his wife. And I went to get a few more drinks. He was gone for a long time so Charles went to look for him. Did anyone else leave the room while your uncle was away? Yes, Jasper Ford disappeared for a few minutes. Why? I'm not sure. And Isabel Miller? I think she was in the room the whole time. So Charles went to look for your uncle. What happened next? Well, we all went up to the office. The door was locked, but Isabel broke the window in the door and unlocked the door from the inside. The key was in the lock on the inside of the room? Yes. That's the strange thing. Thank you, Mr Wilson. Jenkins, let's speak outside. What is it, sir? Jenkins, this is very interesting. What we have here is a classic 'locked room' mystery. As I was saying, Jenkins, this is very interesting. What we have here is a classic 'locked room' mystery. Excuse me sir — a 'locked room' mystery? Yes, Jenkins, it's one of the hardest crimes of all to solve. Tell me more, sir. Alright, Jenkins. Listen and learn. The room was locked and the key was in the lock inside the room. So what we have here is the classic 'bow and arrow' theory. The killer hides in a building on the opposite side of the road and shoots Murdoch through the window with a bow and arrow. But there's no arrow in the body, sir. Exactly. And here's the clever part. The killer attaches a rope to the arrow and then pulls it back! But, sir. The window was closed. It's just a Theory, Jenkins. But with a crime like this we have to consider everything. I see, sir. But tell me. Have you got any other ideas? Well, give me time to think.

Scene 6: Inspector Fell's theory
Inspector Fell says the killer climbed in through the window. He thinks that the killer hid in a building across the road. They didn't find an arrow in Mr Murdoch's body. The window in Mr Murdoch's room was closed. The murderer came through a secret door. Sergeant Jenkins thinks the killer had attached a rope to the arrow.

Inspector Fell thinks he is cleverer than Jenkins. Jenkins is cleverer than he is. C) the room was not locked. the killer used a bow and arrow. 2 Inspector Fell mentions the theory because he is playing a trick on Jenkins. the window was closed. it is a complicated case. Jenkins never listens to him.

Detective Ward Excuse me, sir. We've found something in the wastepaper bin. I think you might be interested. Thank you, Detective Ward. (Reads paper.) Excellent, that's what I thought. Jenkins, call in the suspects. All of them? Yes, Jenkins, all of them.

I think the murderer is, The murderer must be, because, I'm not sure but it might be, I'm certain the murderer is,


Scene 7
Ah, Ms Miller, come in and have a seat. Are you feeling alright? Thank you, Inspector, yes. Of course, it was a shock to find John, I mean, Mr Murdoch, on the floor. And it was you who found the body, wasn't it? Well, it was I who opened the door. The door was locked, but when I put my hand through the glass window, I felt a key in the lock. So I turned the key and opened the door. Is that blood on your coat Ms Miller? Yes, it is. I cut myself when I broke the window. I'm sorry... you were saying? Yes, I opened the door and we found the Body. Somebody had killed poor John! It was terrible. Ms Miller. I have several reports that you left the party for about five minutes. What did you do during this time?  I went to the restrooms. Fell They're on the eighth floor. I see . and did you notice any of your colleagues acting strangely at the Party? Not really. Everyone Fell seemed happy and we were all having a good time until the Body. Here, take my handkerchief. You can leave for now. I need to speak to Mr Dunning. Thank you, Inspector.

Scene 8
Charles Henry Dunning, Head salesman. That's me, Inspector. Are you in love with Ms Miller? No, I'm not. We are colleagues. And besides I've got a girlfriend. Yes, I'm sure you have. Several I expect. Now, that's not fair. Never mind. Mr Dunning, could you please explain what happened at the Party? Well, we were having a few drinks when Mr Murdoch left for his office. He said something about phoning his wife I think, but he seemed a bit worried. It was about the same time that Jasper Ford left the room, too. He said that Mr Murdoch had asked him to get some papers for him. And did anyone else leave the room? Yes, Oliver Wilson went to get some more drinks for everyone and Isabel went with him. Did they return together? No, Isabel came back about five minutes later. And what about you? Well, after about twenty minutes I started to get a bit worried about Mr Murdoch so I went to look for him. I found his room was locked so I went to get the others. I wanted to call the police but Isabel broke the window and opened the door. That's when we saw the Body. Can I ask you something, Mr Dunning? What is that dark spot on your jacket? That. Oh, that's just a spot of red wine, but send it to your labs and analyse it if you don't believe me. I might just do that Mr Dunning. I might just do that. But for now you are free to go. Excuse me, sir. We've found something in the wastepaper bin. I think you might be interested in it. Thank you, Ward. Excellent, this confirms my suspicions. Jenkins, call in the suspects. All of them? Yes, Jenkins, all of them.

Ending
Come in, everyone. Take a seat. This shouldn't take too Long. SO have you solved the crime, Inspector? Have you discovered who he murderer is? Yes, I have, Mr Wilson. Yes, I Have. So who is it? I'll get to that in a minute, but first let me explain how I got to my conclusion. It wasn't easy. Your stories didn't help. Everyone said something different. But there was one thing you all agreed on. And what was that? That, Ms Miller, you were the one who broke the window in the door. SO what? What does that mean? That means that only you can explain the mystery of the locked room. You see, I wasn't just trying to find out who killed Mr Murdoch but how they left his Body in a locked room. So how did he do it? The murderer killed Mr Murdoch and then left the room and locked it from the outside! But how did the key get into the lock on the inside of the door? That’s the big question. The only way the key got into the lock was when the person who broke the window put their hand through and put the key in the lock. She had hidden it in her hand. Isn’t that right, Ms Miller? That doesn't prove anything. You need a motive and evidence. Quite right — and I have both. Mr Ford tried to hide the evidence. I'm talking about this letter, Mr Ford. We found it in the wastepaper bin. When we were all in the Office, I saw the letter on the desk. The others didn't notice when I took it. I only wanted to protect mr Murdoch and his good Name. I didn't want the newspapers to get hold of it. Mabe, Mr Ford, but you still tried to stop the police getting to the truth. That's a serious crime. But . not as serious as blackmail and murder, Ms Miller! Let me read a little from the letter. "Isabel, why are you doing this to me? I can't leave my wife and I can't pay you the money you want to keep quiet. I beg you, please forget this business. If you don't, I'll have no choice but to go to the police and tell them." Well, we've solved the crime, but we still haven't found the weapon. Do you want to tell us where you put it? It's in the dishwasher in the kitchen, Inspector. Mr Wilson But, Isabel .. I still don't Ms Miller Fell Track 11 understand why you killed my Uncle! He said that he loved me! But wasn't true. Jenkins, take her away! 


Scene 9: Inspector Fell presents the solution
Who broke the window in the door of Mr Murdoch's room? What did the murderer do after killing Mr Murdoch? How did the key get into the lock on the inside of the door? What motive did the murderer have? What did Mr Ford try to hide, and where? Why did Mr Ford hide it? What did the murderer want from Mr Murdoch? Where was the murderer's weapon hidden?

Whatis it? Inside the room lies the victim — there is no one else. When the murder happened, nobody could enter or leave the room unseen. Now the detective not only has to work out who committed the crime, but also how they did it. Other popular ingredients for this impossible' crime are: • only door is locked from the inside with the key in the lock. • There is no fireplace or chimney for escape. • The only window is closed from the inside. • Outside, there is fresh snow and there are no footprints. • There is no secret door. • First, there seems to be no murder weapon.
Who invented it? The first writer to use the locked-room mystery was the master of the American detective story, Edgar Allan Poe (1809-1849) in his The Murders in the Rue Morgue. Two women were found dead in their bedroom. The police had no idea who the murderer was. The room was locked from the inside and the windows were shut. They thought it was impossible for the murderer to climb in through the window because the room was on the fourth floor. There was no motive because the two women lived alone, everybody liked them and the police found a lot of money lying around on the floor, so nobody stole anything. The police weren't able to solve the crime, but a clever man, Mr Dupin, could. He looked carefully at the window and discovered that something was broken. He believed that the killer was an excellent climber who had escaped through the window. Then the window closed automatically. When the police heard this, they laughed at Dupin's theory, but he found the murderer — it was an orangutan that had escaped from a Sailor.

In a locked-room mystery the murder 3 weapon cannot usually be found. C] is something strange. C) is taken away by the murderer. 2 In The Murders in the Rue Morgue by Poe, [l the room was locked and none of the windows were open. C] the police found money and broken glass on the floor. the police asked detective Dupin for help. 4 5 Dupin's investigation showed that C] the police were looking for two killers. [3 the dead women knew their killer. C) the killer was someone very unusual. The killer in the Poe story C) was a man who was an excellent climber. C] was a sailor who had escaped from prison. C] was not human. This text might be found in C] a biography of Edgar Allan Poe. C) a guide to crime fiction. C) a book used to train policemen.



Kate Hello, can we see the manager, please? Manager I am the manager. How can I help you? Kate Yes, I bought these headphones from you last week and they’ve broken already. Manager Let me have a look. They look fine to me. So what’s the problem? Kate Well, they don’t work. When I plug them into my phone, I can’t hear a thing. Manager Are you sure there’s nothing wrong with your phone? Kate Yes, I am. My phone works fine. Do you want to see it? Manager No, that’s OK. I’ll believe you. So have they always not worked or did they work and then stop working? Kate They worked for a while but then just stopped. I don’t know why. Manager Maybe you dropped them? Kate No, I didn’t. Manager Or pulled too hard on the wire? Kate No, I told you. They just stopped working. They’re just not good enough. Manager Very strange. We’ve never had a problem with these before. Kate Are you saying it’s my fault? Manager No, no. I’m just saying it’s very strange. Can I see your receipt? Kate Umm. I threw it away. Manager That’s a shame. Kate I know. I should always keep them. But these headphones are from your shop. You can’t get these in other shops. Manager You should always keep your receipt. I can’t do anything without it. Kate I hope you’re joking. Manager I’m not. I’m sorry but I’ve got other customers to serve. Who does Kate want to speak to? She wants to speak to the manager. What has she got a problem with? She has got a problem with her headphones. What is the problem? They are broken. / Kate can’t hear a thing. What are his ideas fro how the item broke? She dropped them or pulled the wire too hard. Why is he surprised the item has broken? They’ve never had a problem with them before. What does he ask to see? He wants to see the receipt. Why does he not help Kate? Because she doesn’t have the receipt any more.


Can I see the manager ? 2 They don’t work . 3 They’re just not good enough. 4 Are you saying it’s my fault? 5 I hope you’re joking.

Wow, Kate was really mad with the manager of Pro Audio. She was determined to sort out the problem on her own and didn't want help from her parents. She posted her complaint online and in a day she already had likes and 33 comments. People were really on her side. Some even said they wouldn't shop there again. Then the manager sent a message saying there had been a confusion and he asked her to come back to the shop. When we got there, he gave her a new pair of headphones. Funny thing happened when he went to get them. He fell off the ladder. Luckily, he wasn't hurt.

Manager: Let me have a look. They look fine to me. So what's the problem?
Manager: Are you sure there's nothing wrong with your phone?
Manager: No, that's ok, I believe you. So have they always not worked or did they work and then stop working?
Manager: Very strange. We've never had a problem with these before.

You bought a mobile phone from Pro Audio but there's a problem with it. Decide what the problem is and go back to the shop to make a complaint
You are the manager at Pro Audio. Listen to the customer's complaint and suggest why it's not your fault.



