As far as we know, the place where the city of New York is situated today, has been home to people since 10,000 B.C. when the first native Americans arrived. But the origins of the city started with the arrival of the Dutch in 1609 who named it New Netherlands. It was renamed New York by the British in 1664 and since then it has played important roles in the American Revolution and Civil War and, of course, it was the entry point for European immigrants during the 19th century. You can check out all this and more in one of our many museums or take a guided historical tour of the city. 

Unsurprisingly for a city that has welcomed people from all over the world, New York has an amazing variety of cuisines and you are never far from an excellent restaurant, café or fast food joint*. Indian, Chinese, Italian, Mexican, Arabic - the list is endless. But don't forget to have at least one hot dog from a street vendor*. You won't taste a better one.

In one of the many museums or take a guided historical tour of the city. 2 It has welcomed people from all over the world. 5 5: the Yankees, Mets, Giants, Jets, Knicks 4 Sitting somewhere watching the world go by while enjoying an ice cream. 5 Popular destinations nearby are the city of Philadelphia, the sculpture park in Hamilton or Coney Island. 
Why would/wouldn't you like to visit New York? Which places interest you the most/least and why? Which sport event or broadway show would you like to see most in New York? Why? What else do you know about New York City?

 New York is a busy city and with so much to see and do, you will probably find you need some time to relax. What better place to do this than in its world-famous Central Park where in summer you can sit and watch the world go by while enjoying an ice cream. In the evening how about a show on Broadway or catching one of the latest films at one of New York’s many modern movie theaters? 

5 If you ever feel you need to get away from the crowds, there are many popular destinations nearby you can visit for the day. The historic city of Philadelphia is just a short train ride away. Or how about visiting the amazing sculpture park in Hamilton, just an hour away? And then there’s Coney Island – New Yorkers’ favourite beach with all its fun attractions. You can easily get there on the metro. 

New Yorkers love their sport and are very proud of their teams. No trip to New York is complete without seeing one of their top sporting teams in action. You can choose between the Yankees or the Mets for baseball, the Giants or the Jets for American football or the Knicks for basketball. Spring, summer, fall or winter, whatever time of the year, there's always something to see. Check out our website for games and times. 

A miracle on the Hudson
It was 3.15 p.m. on January 15th, 2009. Captain Chesley "Sully" Sullenberger sat at the controls of his Airbus A320. 

He was an experienced pilot with more than 40 years of flying behind him. Beside him was co-pilot Jeff Skiles, who was new to this make* of aircraft. They were waiting on the runway at New York’s LaGuardia Airport ready for the takeoff. Ahead of them was a routine two-hour flight to Charlotte, North Carolina – Flight 1549. The plane was at full capacity with 150 passengers and five crew members. Less than twenty minutes later, Sully would find himself facing what all pilots train for, but hope they will never have to do – a landing on water. At 3.24 p.m. Flight 1549 started its takeoff down the runway. It was soon off the ground and up into the air. It started to climb higher. Three minutes later there was a loud bang. The pilots knew they were in trouble. The plane had hit a flock of Canada geese and both engines had burned out. There was nothing powering the Airbus A320 forward. Sully started to think quickly about how he was going to get the plane down  safely. 28 Patrick Harten was an air controller on duty that day. At 3.27 p.m. he contacted Flight 1549 asking for an update on its course. Sully told Harten that they had hit a flock of birds* and that they had lost power in both engines. He also said that they were turning back to try and land at LaGuardia. Harten immediately contacted the airport to make preparation for an emergency landing. But the plane was too low and didn’t have enough power. Making it back to LaGuardia was no longer an option. Sully knew he was running out of choices. He contacted Harten and asked him if they could land at the nearby Teterboro airport. Harten replied immediately and told him that runway 1 at Teterboro was free. But things had become more desperate and Sully now knew he had no chance of reaching any airport. He told Harten they couldn’t make runway 1. Harten offered him the choice of any runway at Teterboro. Sully told Harten they would land on the Hudson River. It was 3.28 p.m. The plane started gliding down towards the river. The only thing in its way was the George Washington Bridge but Sully managed to avoid colliding with it. In front of him now was only the river. At 3.30 p.m. Sully made the announcement that the passengers had been fearing. “Brace*! Brace! Stay down!” It was the first time he had spoken to them. Most of them feared they were going to crash. With its nose in the air and travelling at 150 mph, the plane splashed down on the water. Within seconds it was clear that the plane was staying in one piece. Sully gave orders to evacuate the plane. Over the next few minutes the crew got all the passengers, including one in a wheelchair, out onto the wings of the Airbus. A few, worried that the plane might blow up, jumped into the Hudson and started swimming away from the scene of the accident. The last person to leave was Sully, who walked up and down the plane two times to check that no one had been left inside. The first rescue boats arrived at the plane four minutes later and soon all passengers were safely on solid ground. No one was seriously hurt although seventy-eight of them received treatment for minor injuries and those in the water were treated for hypothermia*. At the end of it all, co-pilot Jeffery Skiles turned to his colleague and told him that he had done something no one had ever successfully done: land such a large plane on water. It was true. In just 208 seconds Chesley “Sully” Sullenberger had performed a miracle on the Hudson River. 

How long had Sully been a pilot? He had been a pilot for over 40 years. How many people were on the plane? There were 150 passengers and five crew member on the plane. What happened three minutes into the flight? There was a loud bang. The engines were damaged by  a flock of Canada geese. Sully's first idea was to try and  land at LaGuardia. Sully made the decision to land on the Hudson at 3.28 p.m. Before the plane landed on the river, it collided with the Washington Bridge. Sully went back into the plane twice to rescue people. Sully was the first pilot to land a huge plane on water. 


When in New_York - don't miss...

Guggenheim Museum: Designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, one of the most important architects of the 20th century, the seashell-shaped Guggenheim Museum is one of New York's most popular tourist destinations. Take an elevator to the top and walk down the spiral ramp gallery to enjoy an amazing selection of art including paintings such as Pablo Picasso's Woman with Yellow Hair and Marc Chagall's Paris through the Window. 
Nine things you never knew about the Guggenheim! Not everyone liked the museum when it opened. One critic said it looked like a war between architecture and painting in which both were badly injured. Twenty-one artists signed a letter complaining about the curved walls of the museum. They said their paintings would not be able to hang properly on them. 3 Architect Frank Lloyd Wright wanted the building to be crimson*, which he called the 'colour of creation'. Unfortunately for him, the man paying for it, Solomon Guggenheim, did not like the colour. The building cost $3 million to build in the 1950s. A restoration of the museum from 2005 to 2008 cost $29 million. Both Wright and Guggenheim died before the museum was completed. Guggenheim died ten years before it opened, while Wright missed it by six months. The museum was visited by 16,000 people on the day it opened. In 2008, artist Carsten Holler installed a work of art at the museum called Revolving Hotel Room. The piece included a bed on moving discs. Members of the public could pay to spend the night in it. In 1998, The Art of the Motorcycle exhibition saw the spiral ramp turn into parking for 114 vintage motorbikes, which were put on display for the public. 9 There are also several other Guggenheim museums, for example in cities like Bilbao (Spain), Guadalajara (Mexico) and Venice (Italy). In 2009, there were discussions about opening one in Salzburg but the plans didn't get any further. 

Frank Lloyd Wright is famous for his work in the 1800s. The building cost 5 million dollars. The building took 5 years to renovate. 16,000 people visited the museum in the first week it opened. There are four Guggenheim museums in the world. 

The museum is shaped like a seashell. 2 Many artists were not happy about the curved walls of the museum. 3 The architect wanted to paint the museum crimson. Wright died six months before the museum was completed.

What is the woman's main job? a historian a tour guide an Economist

Hello and welcome to the Statue of Liberty. Before we go inside I'd like to tell the little-known story of how the statue came to be. It's the story of how a lot of people all giving a little can make a dream come true. Now I'm sure you've all heard of the phrase 'crowd-funding' — when people get together to give money to make something happen. It's a popular way these days, what with the internet, for a band to raise money to make a record or for a director to find the funds he or she needs to finish their film. Well, back in the mid 1800s there was no internet, of course, but the story of how the Statue of Liberty got built is perhaps an early example of how crowd-funding can really work. Our story starts in 1865 when a young French sculptor called Frédéric-Auguste Bartholdi decided he wanted to build a statue to celebrate America's 100th birthday. It would be a gift of friendship from one country to another. Although this  date was not until 1876 Bartholdi knew he would need plenty of time to make his dream come true. So for six years he did nothing, but in 1871 he visited New York and started to get excited again. He even found the perfect location for the statue, a small piece of land called Bedloe's Island near Ellis Island in New York Bay. He decided the statue would be paid for by the French and the pedestal for it to stand on would be Paid by for the Americans. TO raise the money in France he organised a national lottery, which was a big success and soon he had enough money to start building the statue in Paris. Getting the money from the Americans though, was not so easy. Although the politicians had voted to accept the statue, they decided they weren't going to pay for it. By this time the right hand and torch were ready so Bartholdi shipped it to the nearby city of Philadelphia were it was put on display. Members of the public were charged to climb up inside it. Some money was raised so work could start on the pedestal but a lot more was needed. When a second vote in congress also decided against paying for the pedestal, publisher Joseph Pulitzer started a campaign in his magazine New York World asking readers to send in money. But after two months he had still not raised more than $135 of the $200,000 needed. In the meantime, back in France, the statue was now finished and ready to be shipped over. Other US cities were now starting to show an interest. Boston, Cleveland, Philadelphia, and San Francisco all started saying that they would pay to have the statue. Pulitzer was now furious. He started a second campaign. There were now a lot more readers of his magazine and the stories in it about how the statue was making its way over the sea to the US started to get New Yorkers excited. More and more money was being sent in. Eventually, they had enough money to finish the pedestal. More than 100,000 people had contributed an average of 83 cents each. By April 1886 it was ready and work on erecting the statue began. On the 28th October, 1886 it was finally finished and the statue of Liberty was opened to the public. It was only ten years later for the 100 years celebration. But that's enough history for now. If you would all like to follow me, let's walk inside and get a better look at the Wonderful statue.


The Statue of Liberty is one of the most popular tourist destinations in America with about 4 million people visiting it every year. But if you want to climb the 46 metres to the top, you need to plan carefully. Only 240 people are allowed up to the crown every day. There's no cost to visit but you do have to pay to take a ferry to the island.

The statue was the idea of a French sculptor, called Frédéric-Auguste Bartholdi. • It was a present to celebrate America’s independence • He first visited New York in 1871. He wanted France to pay for the statue, and the Americans for the pedestal. • He organised a national lottery to pay for the statue. • US politicians wanted the statue but didn’t want to pay for it. The first part of the statue to arrive in the US was the right hand and torch. In his first campaign Pulitzer only raised  135 dollars. Boston, Cleveland, Philadelphia and San Francisco were cities that showed interest in the statue. New Yorkers finally started showing great interest when the statue was making its way. The statue was finally opened on 28th October 1886

The Mag
Lucy is angry because Stern has written an article for the Whiteoaks' school magazine. It's called The Journal and its editor is a girl called Katy Price. Stern met Katy at the disco and she asked him to write a story about life at St. George's School. Lucy was once a student at Whiteoaks. She and Katy Pimm had an argument about a boy, and they stopped being friends. This is the real reason why Lucy was so upset. When Nick explains this to Stern, he feels really bad about writing the story, so he buys Lucy a teddy bear to say sorry. He also writes her a poem. When Lucy says she wants to put the poem in The Mag, Stern begs her not to because he is worried what his friends in the football team might think.

