So Philip, tell us about Philip the job that you'd like to do when you leave school next year. Sure. I'd like to be a dancer. Interviewer A dancer? Philip Yeah, that's right. Interviewer And why do you want Philip to do that? Are there any dancers in your family? No, not at all. My dad's a dentist and my mum's a receptionist. Erm, well, I want to be a dancer because I love dancing. I always have, ever since I can remember. Interviewer What do your family Philip and friends think about your choice? My family think it's cool. They've seen me dance and they think I'm pretty good at it. But one or two of my friends think it's a bit strange. Do you think they'd feel differently if you were a Girl? Yeah, probably. Right, tell me, Philipp - why do you think men usually get Paid more for doing the same Job as women? Well, I think it's because many People still think that it's a man's world, that women should stay at home. But I don't agree with it at all. I think that men and women should get the same Money if they do the same Job. Are there any jobs that should be done by just men? Maybe physical Jobs, where you Need to be strong.  What's more important for you: making a lot of money or doing a job that you really enjoy? It's difficult to say. I think both are important. Philip, thank you for your time and good luck. Thanks. Mandy, what do you want to do when you leave school? I'm going to be a soldier. Oh? Are either of your parents in the army? No, my mum's an accountant and my dad's unemployed at the moment, but he's looking for a job. So where did you get the idea to be a soldier? Well, when I was 13 1 joined the junior cadets you know, that's like the army for children. They teach you how to use guns and things like that. I loved it. What do your family and friends think About it? My mum and dad think it's a great idea. There aren't so many girls in the army, so they think I'll do well. My female friends think I'm mad and my male friends think I won't do it. But I will. DO you think they'd feel different if you were a Boy? I think my male friends might take me more seriously. A completely different question, Mandy. Men often get paid more than women in some jobs, don't they? Do you think that's fair? No, I think it's wrong, really. But it isn't true in the army. I think men and women get the same money there. If a woman does as good a job as a man, then of course she deserves the same Money. Are there any jobs that you definitely wouldn't like to do? I could never be a teacher. Never. I’d hate to have to teach people like me and my friends! It’d be terrible. Interviewer  So what’s more important to you: getting a lot of money or enjoying what you do? Well money is definitely important, but I could never do a job that I didn't enjoy. What about having a family? Would you give up work to have children? If I ever have children, I'll give up work while the children are young but as soon as they start school, I'd go straight back to work. Mandy, thank you and good luck in the army. Thanks.

SO you want to be an app developer
Every time you open your mobile phone to check the weather, or play Candy Crush you probably open an app. Have you ever stopped to think about who makes this all possible? The answer is: an app developer. 

Gillian Plant from Leeds is an app developer. She designs and develops apps for a mobile company in London where she works. She earns about €35,000 a year and she really loves her job. What does she do? As an app developer Gillian has to work in a team to think up new games for people to play on their mobile phones. She is then responsible for making sure the app is developed quickly to make sure it is launched on time. We asked Gillian to tell us about the pros and cons of her job. 
The Pros: "Job satisfaction, because this is my dream job. I love seeing a project go from an idea in a room to becoming an app on my phone. There are lots of jobs for app developers so the salaries are always good. I often have to travel to meet with clients, which I enjoy at the moment, but maybe when I have children I won't be so keen on that." The Cons: "Although my working hours are officially nine to five, I often have to work much later than this. When we're at the end of a project, I sometimes need to work weekends too. But then I get paid bonuses for meeting my deadlines. I also spend a lot of time in front of a computer, which isn't great for my back."

 So,  Kelly, how did it go? How did what go? The job interview, of course. Oh that. It was 0K. But I don't think I've got the job. Why not? Well, it might sound strange, but I had to take Rover with me. What!? You took your dog to a job interview!? Are you crazy? No. But I had to take him to the vet before the interview and I didn't have enough time to take him home. So you took him to your interview. What did the interviewer say? Well, he was a bit surprised. He asked me why I'd got a dog with me. I explained you know, and said sorry, but I don't think he was very happy about it. No,  probably not. What other questions did he ask you? Oh, you know. He asked me where I had worked before, so I told him about my jobs at the DVD shop and the clothes shop. What else? Let me see. Oh, he asked me if I liked working with people. And you said 'yes'. Well, of course I did. I'm not going to get a job as a receptionist if I say I don't like working with people, am l? No, I don't suppose you are. Yeah, at least I got the answer to that one right. So what was your best answer? Well, he asked why I wanted to work there and I told him that the company was excellent and that it would be great for my career to work for him. I think he liked that answer. Yeah. It doesn't seem as if the interview was totally bad. Maybe not. It's just a shame about Rover. You look happy. I am. I just had a really good job interview. What for? To be a junior reporter for the Daily News. Wow. I never knew you wanted to be a journalist. I've always wanted to be a Journalist. So,  tell me more about the interview. What did they ask you? Well, they asked me if I had any experience ofjournalism. So I told them all about my work on the school newspaper. I think they liked that. Yeah. That's really good experience. And then they asked me when I could start. Well, that's a good sign. So I told them I could start on Monday if they wanted. And what did they say? They said they'd let me know. Let's hope they phone you soon. Yeah, let's hope. I think they really liked me. And there was one question that I gave a really good reply to. What was that? Well,  the top journalist of the paper asked me what my ambition was. So I told him that I wanted his job. You said what? I told him that I wanted his job. I thought it was an excellent reply. It showed them just how much I want to work in the newspaper industry. Did he laugh? No, he didn't. Why? No, nothing. Let's just hope your phone rings soon. Yeah.


Tom Kate Tom Kate Tom Kate Tom Kate Tom Kate Tom Kate Tom Aargh! What's the matter, Tom? I've hurt my ankle. It's really painful. Oh, dear. What happened? Well, I was running over here to hit the ball back and I think I twisted it. It really hurts. Ouch. Let me see. Well, it doesn't look too bad. There's no obvious bruising. It really hurts. I feel quite dizzy, too. Then you must be in pain. I am. I am! I don't think I can walk. Why don't you take your shoe off and we can have a better look. No, no. It hurts too much. So I guess we won't be able to finish the game. No, I'm sorry. I can't go on. I need to get home and put some ice on this before it gets any worse. 
Tom Kate Tom Kate Tom That's a shame. Just when I was about to win too. Were you winning? Yes, the score was five games to two to me. I was forty — love up in that game. A point away from winning, in fact. Oh, sorry. I guess we'll just have to call that game a draw then. Yeah, I guess we will. I think we should get you to the doctor's. I'll call an ambulance. No, no. Don't be silly. It'll be fine. I'm sure I can push myself back on my bike. But you could take my racket and bag. 

Tom is in pain because he hurt his ankle. He hurt it while he hurt his ankle running to thit the ball back. Kate doesn't think it's too bad as she can't see any obvious bruising. Tom isn't sure he can walk. Tom wants to get home and Kate was really close to can walk put some ice on his ankle. Kate suggests going to the doctor's. Tom asks Kate to take his racket and bag. 
I've hurt my ankle, It's really painful, It really hurts, I feel quite dizzy, I can't go on

Kate was pretty annoyed with me. Because of my leg I couldn't help out with the big clear-up of the playing field, of course. The thing is that in the afternoon Ian called to see if I wanted to play basketball and because my leg was feeling much better I said yes. Problem was that Kate saw me when she was waking home with Liam. She was really angry, shouted at me and then walked off. Anyway she got the last laugh because I broke my arm! I think she's forgiven me now because she gave me a kiss.

I've hurt my ankle. It's really painful. Oh dear, What happened? Well, I was running over here to hit the ball back and I think I twisted it. It really hurts. Ouch. Let me see. Well, it doesn't look too bad. There's no obvious bruising. It really hurts. I feel quite dizzy too. When you must be in pain.

You have had an accident and hurt yourself. Think about: what happened, where you're hurt, how it feels, Tell your partner and look for some sympathy. 
Listen to your partner talk about an accident. Ask questions and show sympathy.



Gillian works with technology. T F Gillian works in Leeds. She's not keen on her job. Gillian works in Leeds.
She is responsible for the app from start to finish. Gillian thinks her salary is good. What part of her job might be a problem in the future? Travelling when she has children. Why does she sometimes need to work at weekends? Because she has to meet her deadlines, What doesn't she like about sitting at the computer for a long time? it isn't great for her back.


How to do a good job interview
Before the interview Find out about: the employer you want to work for. Use the internet or talk to someone who works there. the job. yourself. If you ask yourself why you want this job, you will be able to give the interviewer better answers. Think about the questions the interviewer might ask you and prepare your answers. Question areas are likely to be:  Skills – what you can do. Your plans and ambitions for the future. What kind of person you think  you are. Practise your answers to possible questions, but don’t memorise them. Speak naturally. BiSt How to do a good job interview On the day: Make sure you get a good night’s sleep before the interview. Dress smartly. Find out what people at the company usually wear and dress like this or a bit smarter. Make sure your clothes are clean and ironed. At the interview DO  Shake the interviewer’s hand.  Smile confidently and sit up straight.  Listen carefully to the questions and say if you don’t understand.  Take your time and think about your answers.  Be positive and enthusiastic. Be honest. They want to know who you really are. DON’T Chew gum. Be too casual.  Be negative.  Use expressions like ‘uh huh’  or ‘you know’. 

Lie about your skills and experiences. Give yourself enough time to get to the interview in plenty of time. Make eye contact with the interviewer. What skills will you need to do it? Do you have them? Do a practice interview with a friend or member of your family. Why you want the job. 
