

World Hunger
Some Facts
The population of the world is aorund 1.6 billion people. One in nine people will go to bed hungry each night.
The world can produce enough food to feed 12 billion people so that's enough food to feed everybody. Sadly, 3.2 billion tons of the food we produce isn't eaten. That is one third of the food we produce. Food wasted in Europe could feed 200 million people. However, the problem is not just in Africa and Asia. In 2016, 3 million people around the world went hungry because they couldn't afford to eat. Poverty is the main cause of hunger. However, climate change and wars are also a cause of hunger. Every day, 21,000 people die of hunger. Every 110 seconds, somewhere in the world, a child dies because they are not eating the right kind of food. Children don't get the vitamins they need to be healthy and so they die from common illnesses such as measles. Most people suffering from hunger live in countries affected by war and conflict. Just one example is South Sudan. In 2017, it was recorded that 4.9more than 6 million people (over 42 percent of the population) went hungry. In Sub-Saharan Africa, million people face hunger in countries with dry climates like Ethiopia, Niger and Mali. get so little food that they suffer from what is called 'extreme hunger'. What is extreme hunger? It's when someone 500 only gets about 8. calories a day. In the USA, adults have an average intake* of 9 ....220.00:6000. calories a day

Jamie Oliver - The Food Revolution

Every child deserves good food.
Jamie Oliver is a world famous English chef who owns and runs hiw own restaurants and trains new chefs. He has also done cookery programmes on television. A few years ago, he did a TV programme called Jamie's School Dinners. Many schools in Britain give the kids a meal at lunchtime — the meals are called 'school dinners' (even though they're lunches, not dinners!). There are people called 'dinner ladies' who make the meals for the kids. In his TV programme, Jamie Oliver found that a lot of school dinners are just 'junk food'. WHAT'S JUNK FOOD? It's food that is filling, but not very healthy because it has artificial things in it. It's fattening and it's harmful. But a school dinner should give young people 33% of the nutrition that they need every day. That's why it should have fresh food and also all the proteins, minerals and vitamins that kids need to be healthy and grow. Jamie is calling on us all to join the Food Revolution. The Food Revolution is a global campaign for better food and food education for all children. Around the world, 41 million children under the age of five are overweight or obese. For the first time ever, a lot of today's children will live shorter lives than their parents, because of the food they eat. That's shocking! Jamie has a six-point plan of action to deal with childhood obesity.
HERE IS HIS 6-POINT PLAN A SUGAR TAX* Put a tax on sugary drinks*. They are fattening. NO JUNK FOOD ADS Ban junk food adverts from TV before 9 p.m., CLEAR LABELS Put labels on drink cans and food packets and make the quantity of sugar in them clear. LESS SUGAR — Reduce the huge amount of sugar in food and drinks. AT SCHOOL Give all children access to nutritious school breakfasts and lunches. AT HOME Parents should regularly check the weight and height of children under 11. Health starts at home. 

Sugary drinks are the biggest contributor of sugar in the diets of children and teenagers. Jamie Oliver campaigned for a sugary drinks tax in the UK. He asked for a 20p tax on each can of drink. The government has agreed to a tax of 18p a litre for drinks with 5g of sugar per 100ml; and 24p a litre for those with more than 8g per 100ml. Some well-known fizzy drinks contain 35g of sugar. Some countries have already introduced a tax, including Mexico and France.
Be a revolutionary
Food revolution
Join the revolution!

Jamie Oliver is a famous English teacher TV chef 2 His TV programme was called Jamie's School Dinners Lunches. 3 Junk food is tasty and nutritious filling but unhealthy. Answer the questions. 4 What food should kids get in schools? They should have fresh food. 5 What do kids need to grow? They need proteins, minerals and vitamins. 6 Where is the Food Revolution taking place? It's taking place around the whole world. 7 Many children won't live as long as their parents because of . the food they eat. Jamie believes that the main cause of obesity is the huge amount of sugar in food and drinks. Jamie has successfully campaigned for the government in the UK to tax sugary drinks.

Shannon
Shannon talks about her eating problem. No, she has beaten her problem.

I was never really fat and I was never really thin. I was somewhere in the middle. That's what I thought. Maybe I was a little overweight.

One day, when I was fourteen, I was invited to Rebecca's birthday party. When Rebecca ate the third piece of cake, I heard her sister say, "If you go on eating like that, you'll get as fat as Shannon!" That hurt. Most of my friends at school were thinner than me and being thin like a model was a topic all the girls talked about all the time. Not long after the party, I started to throw up after eating. At first, I threw up only once or twice a week. But soon I felt that this wasn't enough. Whenever I ate something, I had the feeling it was too much. Whenever I had the chance, I looked in the mirror. I didn't like what I saw. "Fat, fat, fat", I thought.

And there were times when I opened the fridge as soon as I got home from school. I stuffed myself with food and afterwards I felt so bad about it that I ran into the bathroom.

It was a terrible time because I often had stomach ache. I often felt very weak and I often felt sick, so I didn’t enjoy eating any more. It didn’t matter what I ate. My friends knew that something was going on, but I never talked to them about my problem. When we were on holiday in Italy, I tried to stop throwing up after eating. But I couldn’t. When I looked in the mirror, I was sure I had gained 20 kilos, but of course I hadn't.

Then one day I collapsed in the gym at school. After the lesson my P.E. teacher told me to come to her room. She offered me a cup of tea and she talked to me. I couldn't tell her about my problem, but I promised I would talk to my mum.

So I wrote a letter to my mum and left it on the kitchen table one day before I left the house. I was scared when I came home, but my mother hugged me and said, "We'll solve this problem together."

Now, every week I go to a meeting of a group of girls who have eating disorders. We talk about our problems and I feel much better. I eat regularly and don't throw up any more. And I don't look in the mirror all the time. I'm a little overweight again, but I have learned to accept it. 

At Rebecca's party, I has a really good time. When I went home, I knew I had finally beaten my problem.

It tells you how a girl learnt to solve her eating problems. It tells mothers how they can help their children with problems. It tries to tell young people how they can lose weight. It tells you how to keep fit and eat well.

Her eating problem started when she was fourteen. T / F 2 Right from the beginning she threw up after every meal. T / F 3 She tried to stop throwing up when on holiday. T / F 4 Her friends never knew what was going on. T / F 5 She told her P.E. teacher about her problem. T / F 6 She is happy that she can talk about her problem to others.

Why did Shannon want to be "as thin as a model"? What things did she do that were not "normal" and showed that she had a real problem? What do you think of her mother's reaction to her letter? Why is it important for her to meet with the group of girls? Shannon couldn't talk about her problem to her friends, her mother and her teacher. Why? 
I think she was ashamed.
I think she was depressed.
I think she was very unhappy.
I think she didn't trust...
I think she didn't think they could..
I see
Maybe she thought..

I often mis breakfast- I get up too late and I'm not very hungry in the morning. If I eat anything, it's just a bowl of cereal and milk and maybe some orange juice. At school I eat some crisps and have a cola during the morning, in the break. I have lunch at school - it's usually something with chips, a hamburger perhaps or some chicken nuggets. When I get home in the afternoon my mum makes me something like a ham and cheese sandwich, with some cola. In the evening we all have dinner at different times - I have something like sausages and chips, normally. Weekends are a bit different. sometimes I meet friends and we go for a pizza or something. I guess my diet isn't very healthy, but I enjoy what I eat and I don't think I eat too much, so I'm not really worried. 

The School offers veggie burgers and veggie Pizza. Stern loves meat. Vegans don't eat any animal products at all. Mr Davis nerly got into Trouble with the Police. Mr JOhnson is the headmaster. Miss Chappell put the Steak in her handbag. 

Miss Chappell enjoys cooking vegetarian Food. Miss Chappell feels healthier not Eating meat. Mr Davis used to demonstrate for animal Rights. Mr Davis found it difficult to get good vegetarian Food. Nick thinks there's enough vegetarian Food on the menu. Jessica understands hy the Demonstrators are unhappy.

