Kids make a difference

launch: to start somethings (e.g. website, campaign, etc.)
inspire: to make people want to do good things
award: prize
goal: the aim of what you are doing
support: to agree with a cause (and maybe help with it too)
donate: to give money or your time for free
in need: to want help (financially, emotionally, etc.)
income: the money you earn from doing somethings
drop out: to stop doing something

the importance of dreams and ambitions B 
to reach your goals and dreams C
 contains a letter D 
community service helps E 
donate a box F 
to be successful in school

Making a difference

There are over 16 million children in America living in families with incomes below the poverty level and many of them drop out of school because school supplies are too expensive. Patricia Manubay decided to do something about it. 

In 2016, Patricia Manubay, a student at El Camino High School in San Francisco, was given an award for her project Dream Boxes. The purpose of Dream Boxes was to give children the supplies they needed to be successful in school and to give them the support they needed to make their dreams happen. Patricia launched her project at the Jefferson Awards in New York City in 2015. The idea for it came from Patricia's love for education, learning, reading and writing, but also from her own struggle with bullying and her lack of confidence. 

Here's how she says Dream Boxes works: People from around the country can 2 donate a box that's packed with school supplies such as pencils, erasers, one or two books to read, a few notebooks, a backpack, a dream journal, and a letter of encouragement to help inspire kids on their academic journey. The boxes are then distributed among various communities to students in need. Every Dream Box is different.

The coolest part is you're encouraged to make your own Dream Box and share your contribution using the hashtag #DreamBoxes.

The goal for the first year of the project was to have 1 00,000 Dream Boxes distributed to children across the country. Patricia hoped the project would have a positive impact on young students and that it would inspire her peers to get involved in community service. "Doing 3 community service helps your leadership skills, and project planning skills that help you live in the future," she said.  

Dream Boxes believe that students should be able to find a job they are passionate about in spite of difficulties at home. Dream Boxes are mainly distributed to elementary and middle schools to talk about the importance of education, and what it takes to reach your goals and dreams. Each month, more and more Dream Boxes are being sent to students and dreamers. 

Everybody involved in the project worked hard and by the end of 201 5, Dream Boxes were successfully distributed to over 50,000 students across the United States and continue to support students to this day. Dream Boxes has also been featured on MTV News, and has won many awards. The project continues to provide school supplies to students, schools and families nationwide, and talks are given to students about the importance of dreams and ambitions.

How can I help? All young people are encouraged to help. They can collect basic school supplies and spread the word. You can donate money or you can write a letter of encouragement. Each Dream contains a letter telling other students the importance of education and dreams. Sharing your experience on social media will help Dream Boxes to expand across the country. Use the hashtag #DreamBoxes. Patricia is just one of the many young people making a difference in the world today. Why don't you join her and make a difference too? 

More than 16 million children's families don't earn enough to live on* in America. Many children in America leave school early because they want to work. Patricia wanted her Dream Boxes to provide children with the school things they needed. 

Patricia was not very confident at school. THe letters in the boxes should inspire children to learn. Patricia wanted people of her own age to take part.




All kinds of books for all kinds of readers

"You always have words. You're able to express your emotions when you read." Young activist, Marley Dias
 am sure you can remember your favourite book in primary school, can't you? I am sure you can remember more than one. Who was the hero or heroine of the book? Was it someone like you? 

An American school girl, Marley Dias, was frustrated by the books in her school library. They were all about characters she couldn't relate to. She wanted to read about someone like her, so she started her campaign #1000bIackgirlbooks. Her goal was to find 1 ,OOO 'black girl books'. That is books with a black girl as the main character.

Marley Dias told her mother she was bored by the books that she was being given at school. Her mother, Janice Johnson Dias, asked her what she was going to do about it. In November 201 5, with the help of her mother, Marley launched her campaign to find and donate 'black girl books' to communities in America. 
I started this because in my fifth-grade class I was only able to read books about white boys and their dogs. I understood that my teacher could relate to those characters, so he asked us to read those books. But I didn't relate to them, so I didn't learn lessons from those stories," said Marley. Now, she has exceeded her goal after huge support both online and offline. Online, her hashtag #1000bIackgirlbooks has taken off, and offline the author and blogger Kelly Jensen raised nearly $3,000 in donations to help Marley collect the books she wanted. What's more, she sent Marley a huge range of picture books and young adult titles. 

The bookseller Barnes&NobIe also donated books to the campaign. They said that, "Some books introduce us to characters who are different from us, and that lets us see the world from a different view point. But it is also important for children to read stories about characters they can relate to and see themselves in." 

When Marley had collected around 700 books, she appeared on the US chat show Ellen, and she said, "In the beginning, I was worried that we weren't going to reach our goal, but now there are strangers thanking me for doing this. It makes me feel happy because there are strangers on Facebook who are so grateful and say 'because of this book campaign my son wants to do this' and 'my daughter wants to do that', and I think that's kind of cool.

Now that she has exceeded her aim of #1000blackgirlbooks, Marley Dias hopes she will continue to receive donations, so she can pass them on to other schools where students are experiencing the same frustration." We are having a book festival and donating books to St Mary, the town in Jamaica where my mother is from," she said. "l also plan on donating books to other schools in America, including West Orange, my elementary school ... where my frustration began."

Writing on Stacked Books, blogger Kelly Jensen said she was thrilled to have been able to send so many books to Marley, but she hadn't thought it would be so difficult to find 'black girl books'. She also said that, "these books are not out there, not obvious, and that needs to change." According to statistics collected by the Cooperative Children's Book Centre, of 3,500 children's books surveyed in 2014, just 84 were by Africans or African Americans, and just 180 featured African or African American characters.

Books transmit values. What is the message when some children are not represented in those books?" wrote Walter Dean Myers, the late* children's author, in The New York Times in 2014. "Where are black children going to get a sense of who they are and what they can be? ... that black children, and boys in particular, don't read. Small wonder. There is work to be done." By June 2017, Marley had collected 9,000 'black girl books' and she had become an author herself. Her book is called Marley Dias Gets it Done — And So Can You. So why not take her advice and start campaigning for something you  believe in?

Ellen is here today to talk about a very special girl who has inspired her. Tell us who that is, Ellen. Ellen It’s the chef, Amber Kelley. Interviewer  And why is she such an inspiration to you? Ellen It started a couple of years ago. I was overweight and I was being bullied at school. I was eating all the wrong things – burgers, chips, sugary fizzy drinks – you know the kind of thing. Then I watched Amber Kelley’s YouTube show Cook with Amber. She was making delicious healthy recipes that were easy to make. After watching a few shows, I started to cook at home. That's great, Ellen. There might be listeners out there who haven't heard of Amber Kelley. Could you tell us a little about her? Well, she's been a YouTube-star star since 2012. She started her healthy cooking channel then, didn't she? Yes, she did. It was called Cook with Amber. Amber was only 9 at the time, wasn't she? Yes, that's right. She was a famous chef and she was only 9 years old. That's amazing, isn't it? But Amber's always eaten healthily. Her parents are wellness coaches, so she's seen them teach others what to eat. She says if you eat fresh, healthy food it can make you feel better, and you'll do better in school and sports. Amber was bullied at school, wasn't she? Yes, but she was bullied for bringing healthy packed lunches to school. That's why she started her online cooking show. She was nine years old at the time. On her tablet, she shot videos of herself cooking. She thought only her parents and friends would watch. But lots of people started watching and her videos on YouTube became really popular. She's still really popular. I hear her show has 45,000 subscribers. That's right and I'm one of them. So what kind of things does she cook? Lots of fun things like raspberry ice cream with only three gredients — bananas, almond milk and frozen raspberries. That's cool, isn't it? And my favourite, no pasta lasagne. That's right, no pasta! She uses thin slices of zucchini instead of pasta. The goal of all her shows is to show parents and children that cooking can be fun and healthy. So how has your life changed since you've watched Cook with Amber? Now I eat fresh healthy food, I think I have a lot more energy. I've started playing volleyball and I go climbing at the weekend. Friends at school started to watch her show too. We've started a cookery club at school now. We take it in turns to film a video of one of our recipes. Then we share our videos online. I think we're all a lot healthier than we were last year and that's thanks to Amber. That's great to hear. All kids should eat healthily, shouldn't they? Yes. Well, thank you for coming on the show, Ellen and for telling us all about Amber Kelley.

Inspired
The girl who inspired me most is Amber Kelley. She's an American chef with a YouTube show called Cook with Amber. WHen I started watching her show, I was overweight and I was being bullied at school. She cooks delicious healthy food and her recipes are easy to make. Amber has always eaten healthy food because her parents are wellness coaches. But she was bullied for bringing healthy packed lunches to school. When she was nine she shot a video of herself cooking. Her videos were really popular. She cooks lots of fun things like raspberry ice cream with only three ingredients - almond milk, frozen raspberries and bananas. That's easy, isn't it?
Now that I eat healthily, I have a lot more energy and I do more sports. Thanks to Amber, we've started our own cookery club at school. We're all a lot heatlhier too.


ate Tom Kate Tom Kate Tom Kate Tom Kate Tom Kate Tom Did you get that text from Hannah about the party on Saturday? Yeah, I did. You don't sound very excited. I'm not. It's a fancy dress party. I hate fancy dress parties. What?! Are you mad? Everyone likes fancy dress parties. Well, that's not entirely true because I don't. I really don't like them. Why not? I mean, what's wrong with you? Well, they're just like fashion shows. Everyone just wants to show off. I'm not so sure about that. I think people just like dressing up. Well, what about those people that spend a fortune on their costumes? 0K, you've got a point there, but most people just make their own. They hardly spend anything. Oh, please. Just wait until Saturday. Everyone will be there in designer costumes.
ell, I won't. And I already know what I'm going as. I'm not telling you though. It's a secret. What about you? Superman, Batman, Spiderman? Thanks, but no! I'm a bit old for superheroes! Yeah, you might be right. So, what are you going to wear? I've no idea. I might not go. Oh, you're so grumpy. You're absolutely right. I am and I don't care. Hang on, I've just got a message. Me too. It's from Simon. He's having a party on Friday. Two parties in one week! Please tell me it's not another fancy dress party. Relax. It's not. 


has invited Kate to a party on Saturday. is not looking forward to the party. thinks fancy dress parties are for show-offs*. thinks most people like to make their own costumes. is keeping their costume a secret. hasn't decided whether or not to go to the party yet. is having a party on Friday. 


Kate Tom Kate Kate Tom I hate fancy dress parties. What? Are you mad? Everyone likes fancy dress parties. Well, that's not entirely true because I don't. I really don't like them. Why not? I mean, what's wrong with you? most people just make their own. They hardly spend anything. Oh, please... Just wait until Saturday. Everyone will be there in designer costumes. 
