Here comes our next contestant. Welcome to the show, . Thank you. , choose an envelope and open it. 0K. It says: 'Australia'. Great, so, are you ready to answer the ten questions about Australia? Yes, I am. Have you ever been to Australia, ? Yes, I have. I've got an uncle there. Nice. 0K. Here's the first question. When did the first people come to Australia? Ten thousand years ago, 20 thousand years ago or 60 thousand years ago? I think it was 60 thousand years ago. Correct! It was the Aborigines, of course. So, question number two. Where did they come from? From America, from Africa or from Asia? They came from Asia — from southeast Asia. Brilliant. Next question. How big is Australia? As big as the USA without Alaska, as big as South America or as big as North and South America together? Hmm. I think it's as big as the USA without Alaska. Great.  you’ve won £500. You can take the money or you can go on. What would you like to do? Would you like to go on? Yes. But you know that you'll lose all the money if you get a question wrong. Yes, I do. But I'd like to go on. 0K. Question four. How many people live in Australia? About twenty-four million. Great! Absolutely correct. Next question. What's the capital of Australia? Canberra. Right again! Well done. Have you been there? No, I haven't. Now for an easy Question. Question six. Name three animals that you can only find in Australia. The koala, the kangaroo and the wombat. Excellent! Now can you  tell me the names of the three biggest cities? I think I can. Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. , you really are an  expert on Australia. Now — you've already won L 1000. Do you want to go on and try to win {5000? Yes, definitely. Great. Here are the last  three questions. What time is it in Sydney when it is 3 p.m. in Vienna. Let me think. Ah, it's midnight. Right! And now for  something a little more difficult. How many states are there and how many territories? There are six states and — let me think — two territories. Perfect. Last question.  If you get this one right, you'll be richer by [5000. so - last question. Who is Australia's head of state? Think carefully. The head of state?  Queen Elizabeth II.  , you're great. Here's your cheque for {5000! Congratulations! Thank you.

Travel Blog

The surprise of the century! Yesterday Dad came home with airline tickets. Next Friday we're off to Australia! We leave London at about 9 p.m. and arrive in Perth at 00.30 on SUNDAY. What a long flight! We'll watch all the films they have on the plane. 

Days 1 and 2: Perth
It's winter here, but it's not cold. Perth is a great city with lots of parks. We went by boat to Rottnest Island off the coast. Hired bikes there and went round the island. Saw some funny animals called quokkas. In the information centre we got a brochure. It said, 'On the island you can relax from the pressures of modern city life.' How can you relax when you have to cycle twenty kilometres on a bike without gears? Our plane to Alice Springs leaves at 8.30 tomorrow morning. That means getting up at 6.30. I hate getting up so early. Mum and Dad said we have to see Ayers Rock. So we're flying into the centre of Australia. 

Days 3-5: Alice Springs

Dad rented a car and we went to the famous rock. We were driving for hours and suddenly there was this big red mountain there, like a huge birthday cake. Ayers Rock is very important to the Aborigines. They call it Uluru and they believe the ghosts of their ancestors live there. This is why it is forbidden to climb the mountain. So we just took photos. In the evening there are lots of people with cameras there waiting for the sun to go down. At that moment the colour of the rock changes to a deep red. 

We went to an Aboriginal heritage centre. A guy called Simon led us around a bush trail telling us about how his ancestors used the land for everything they needed. We saw examples of tents made of small trees, tree bark and leaves. We also saw how they made traps to catch big goannas. They took a little rock and attached a piece of string to it. Then they put a bigger rock on top of the little one. They waited until a goanna went under the big rock for the shade. Then they pulled on the string! (I'm sure you can imagine the rest of the story.)

At the end of the bush walk we all sat and watched Simon playing the didgeridoo. Simon told us that most Aborigines live in or near cities now and that a lot of them have forgotten how to hunt. Tomorrow we've got another plane trip. We leave Alice Springs at 10 o'clock. Back to Perth. Two boring hours at the airport and then we fly off to Broome.
Days 6 and 7: Broome

Broome has got the most gorgeous beach. It's 22 km long. Mum, Ryan and I wanted to swim and lie on the beach, but Dad wanted to rent another car and drive into the Kimberley Wilderness to camp there. But we got lucky. In the evening we talked to two tourists, Eve and Jeremy, at the hotel. When they'd told us their story, Dad was happy to stay in Broome! 

Here's Jeremy's story: My girlfriend Eve and I were camping at this campsite on the Pentecost River. During the second night something started shaking our tent really violently. We were in a panic and we crawled out of the tent and ran to the car. Fortunately, it wasn't locked and the key was in the car. I started the car and put the headlights on — and I saw a big crocodile. It was trying to drag the tent into the river. We were so lucky that the crocodile hadn't grabbed our legs. After a while, the crocodile gave up and went back into the water. We watched it for a long time, but suddenly our headlights went out. It was the battery — it was flat. We were too scared to go back to the tent so we slept in the car. In the morning we could still see the crocodile near the river bank. I tried to start the car, but no luck. So I left Eve and walked to the Gibb River Road, to wait for a car. After three hours a car came and took me back to our campsite. We jump-started* the car and left. 

Days 8 - 10:

We've got a nice tan. Three days on the beach, swimming, snorkelling and playing frisbee. No surfing at Broome because there aren't any good waves. Later today we say goodbye to Broome and in the early afternoon fly to Sydney, the last stop on our trip

Days 11 - 12: Sydney
View of the harbour
Three days in Sydney. Everyone wants to go to the aquarium. Mum wants to do a harbour cruise. Dad wants to see the opera house. I want to go shopping for presents for my friends and my silly brother wants to do the 3-hour tour to the top of the Sydney Harbour Bridge. 
Day 11
We did the harbour cruise, did a tour through the opera house and did some shopping. Bought three presents and six T-shirts. I saw a poster when I was shopping. There's a beach party this Sunday. I really want to go. Mum and Dad said they would think about it. 
Day 12

We spent the morning at the aquarium. I liked watching the sharks best. In the afternoon we did some more shopping. Bought four presents and a cheap bag to put them in. And guess what? In the evening we all went to the beach party. It was awesome! 
Day 13
To keep Ryan happy, we did the bridge climb — 3 1/2 hours!!! First a guy told us what not to do, e.g. not jump off the bridge (just kidding) and then we climbed to the highest point of the bridge. There's a wonderful view from there, but if you're scared of heights, don't do the climb. Some more shopping afterwards. More presents. My new bag's full. Dad says I'll have to pay the excess weight* from my pocket money. ;-)) Tomorrow we fly back to London at 5 p.m. A great holiday.

The writer thinks that Rottnest Island is a good place to relax. Uluru looks like a big birthday cake. Even today almost all Aborigines are very good at hunting. 

Dad didn't want to stay in Broome because he wanted to drive into the Kimberley Wilderness.
Jeremy and Eve couldn't leave the campsite because the car battery was flat.
Broome is not good for surfing.

They wanted to go to the aquarium, do a harbour cruise, see the opera house, go shopping and do the 3-hour tour to the top of the Sydney Harbour Bridge. She bought a bag to put her presents in. People who are scared of heights. 

Book review: Mutant Message Down Under
Mutant Message Down Under was written in 1990 by an American doctor called Marlo Morgan. In this book she describes her fictional* 'walkabout' with a group of Aborigines. These Aborigines called themselves "The Real People" and they wanted Morgan (the mutant) to cross Australia on foot with them. Here are some of my favourite scenes from the book:

Unprepared
Marlo was invited to meet a group of Aborigines. Dressed in high heels and normal clothes she was picked up by a driver from her hotel. When she met the group, they told her they were ready to leave. She was invited to come with them. It would take about three months. Amazingly, she decided to go. After a few hours her feet were swollen and cut. But she didn't give up, just took her shoes off. 
 
The first meal
Marlo's first meal came as quite a shock. The women stopped to gather some large leaves. Then they started looking under dead trees. Every now and then they found something and wrapped it in a leaf. When Marlo looked closer she saw that each leaf contained a large, white worm. She was sure she would never eat it, but when they cooked the food on a fire and served it, it didn't look like a worm any longer. Marlo tried it and it tasted good. 

Knowing your environment
Marlo was amazed by the group's survival skills. They could find water where there was absolutely no sign of it. Marlo says they could actually hear the water under the sand and then they would suck water from the ground with long hollow reeds. Marlo was also impressed by the Aborigines' tracking skills. They could tell what creatures were nearby from footprints on the ground. They could even tell how fast the animals were travelling

Help from the insects

One part I really liked was when Marlo complained about bush flies. The files were crawling in everybody's ears and noses. The leader of the group told her that she shouldn't think bush flies are bad. They crawl down the ears and noses and clean out the wax and the sand. This is why Aborigines have perfect hearing. And they find it easier to breathe in the heat because they have big noses. He told Marlo that her nose was too small.

What is a mutant?
At the end of the book the Aborigines tell Marlo about the difference between mutants and real people. The Aborigines believe that mutants are all those people who have no idea how to live in the wild. Most mutants spend their time in buildings, and can't digest* real food. All mutants have fear. Real people have no feat because they know that the universe has a plan for them. I really like the idea that real people believe that there is a plan, so they don't worry as much as we do.

After a few hours her feet were swollen and cut, because she was wearing high heels. After they had cooked it, it didn't look like a worm any longer. They would suck water from the ground with long hollow reeds. They could tell what creatures were nearby. They crawl down the ears and noses and clean out the wax and the sand. It's easier for them because they have big noses. Because mutants don't believe that the universe has a plan for them.
Would you just walk off into the desert? Why (not)? Would you eat worms when on such a walkabout? What did Marlo think of the bush flies? What did she learn about them? You are, of course, mutants. What do you think of the Aborigines' description of mutants?

Now the problem in Australia is that there are often great distances between the doctor and the patients. There might be a farm that's 500 km away from the nearest village or town. Or it might take an ambulance two days to reach an Aboriginal settlement. The Royal Flying Doctor service provides important medical services to an area of 7,200,000 square kilometres. Imagine: that's almost twice the size of the European Union. We have 45 aircraft and about 450 people work for the Royal Flying Doctor Service. On a typical day, just one day, we make about a hundred landings, we care for about 500 people and we fly more than 35,000 km. Now let me tell you a bit about our history. The founder was the Reverend John Flynn. He wanted to help the people living in the outback, but it was very difficult. At that time there were only two doctors for a very, very large area. When somebody was ill they had to travel by horse or even by camel. In 1917, a young medical student who was also a pilot had an idea to solve the problem of the enormous distances: they could use planes. He wrote to Reverend Flynn about it. Flynn was very enthusiastic about the idea, and that was the beginning of the Royal Flying Doctor Service. One last thing. Most of the people who live far away from a town have a box at home, with drugs, bandages and other first aid materials. Often, the doctor who talks from a town or from the aircraft asks detailed questions about the pain, and then tells the caller which pills to take or to give to the patient. To make communication easier, there's a picture of a human body in the box. And the different parts of the body have got numbers on them, so people can describe more easily where the pain is. The pills in the box are numbered, too. There's a joke we like to tell about the pills and the numbers. A man was told by the doctor to give his wife a number nine pill. Later, when the doctor arrived, the man said, didn't have any number nine pills any more, so I gave her one number four and one number Five.

The problem with illnesses in Australia is that there are often great distances between doctors and patients.
The Royal Flying Doctor Service provides important medical services for people who live far away from towns.
On a typical day they make about a hundred landings.
There are about 450 people who work for the Royal Flying Doctors.
THere are farms that are more than 500 km away from the nearest town.
A hundred years ago, doctors had to travel by horse or by camel to get to their patients.
Most people living far away from towns have a box with drugs, bandages and other first aid material.
In 1917, a young man had an idea about how to solve the problem of the enormous distances.

Lucy's family's moving to Sydney. Liam has kept in touch with his old friends. Lucy likes Australian music. Lucy wants Jessica to be the new editor. Nick gives Lucy a present.

Lucy tells the team that she's moving to Australia. Liam tells Lucy about his experiences of moving. Stern talks about all the great things there are in Australia. Jessica promises to look after the magazine. Nick gives Lucy a goodbye present. Lucy decides she's really looking forward to moving. 
