Mr Sandman
Sun, sea and surf are the last things on Nick D'Errico's mind during a trip to the beach. An interview with a sand collector.

How did your fascination with sand begin?
It all started on my honeymoon. My wife and I went to Jamaica. When I was walking along the beach one day, I decided to collect some sand to take home with me. I did it to have some memories of our wonderful holiday. I wasn't thinking of starting a new hobby then.
Why did you change your mind?
My wife worked for a travel agent and her colleagues started bringing sand for me from lots of exotic places. When I looked at the sands through a microscope, I discovered that they were all different. The sands were different in colour, size and shape. I was fascinated. That's how it all started.
How many kinds of sand do you have and where do you keep them?
I've collected between 18,000 and 19,000 different kinds of sand since I started my hobby. Last year I got a wonderful collection from a geology professor in North Carolina. It took four days for the two of us to pack them all up. The total weight was 2,722 kilos. I have not unpacked most of them. They're still in the packages they arrived in and they have taken over the whole house.
What is the most expensive sand?
Probably moon sand. Not long ago some very rare moon sand was stolen. It hasn't turned up on the black market yet, but when it does, it will go for a lot of money.
If I wanted to become a sand collector, how would I go about it?
Just go to the beach and stand there. Take your time and look closely. Take sand from different places on the beach. Start comparing the sands. When you see how different they all are, your fascination will begin.
How many members are there in the Sand Society?
The Sand Society started about 50 years ago. It had only six members, but since then 240 people in 14 countries have joined. We also have a magazine called The Sand Paper with news for our members.

The man in the pictures below, Don Vicente, was a monk who later had a bookshop. He suffered from "bibliomania". What do you think that is? 

Today in our series on Great Crimes in History, you will hear about a man who lived in the 19th century. His name was Don Vicente, and he suffered from an illness called bibliomania. As the word suggests, he was fascinated with books, but in an abnormal way. Great  Crimes in History. Don Vicente — the man who murdered for books. It all happened in the 1830s. In Tarragona in the northeast of Spain there was a monk called Don Vicente and he was the keeper of the library of his monastery. He loved books, and he was a very good librarian. Then, one day, the monastery was robbed. The thieves stole all the gold, silver, and a number of books. The books were very old and very precious and the thieves were never found. Shortly after the robbery, Don Vicente left the monastery and the library. A few days later, he arrived in Barcelona where he bought a bookshop. It was a very special bookshop that had a lot of old and rare books. Soon people started talking about Don Vicente because he bought more books than he sold, and he never sold any of the old and expensive books he had. In 1836, there was an auction of a very old, very rare book. It was printed in 1482 by Spain's first printer. People believed that book was the only copy left. Don Vicente wanted to buy the book, but he couldn't. Another bookseller named Augustino Patxot got a lot of support from his colleagues, and he bought the book. Don Vicente was furious. Three days later, Augustino Patxot's shop burned to the ground, and he was found dead inside. Soon, seven other people were killed in Barcelona, and each time one or more of their books were stolen. Because Don Vicente had been so angry at the book auction, the police came to his house, and began to look for the stolen books. It didn't take them long — they found all of them. At first, Don Vicente said that he had nothing to do with the murders. After some time he stopped lying, but only because the police promised that his library was safe and his books would be protected, even if he was sentenced to death. Then Don Vicente was brought before the judge and it was a dramatic Moment. So, you killed eight people, and you stole their books. But each of the men had a lot of money — why did you never steal any of that? I'm not a thief, sir! Not a thief? You stole their books, and you killed those poor men! Are you at least sorry for what you have done? Are you sorry for killing eight People. Every man must die sooner or later, sir, but good books must be preserved! Quiet! Quiet! The Judge had heard enough. He sentenced Don Vicente to death and he was executed in 1836.

The collector
OK, so I'm a FOMO-guy, like 90% of all the other kids in school.

The first to call us this was my History teacher — he thought he was being witty. But then other teachers started calling us it too, which is kind of funny, because most of them spend all day on their phones too. Maybe I should explain: FOMO means Fear Of Missing Out. But I guess their fears are different from mine. They are in family WhatsApp-groups or trying to be clever on some old-fashioned social media site.
But I use my phone mainly for gaming because I'm a gamer. And I play a lot. I collect all kinds of games — and I'm good at them. Some people call it an addiction, but I call it a hobby.
Of course, I use my phone for texting, chatting and looking up stuff too. I like to know what's going on. That's only normal for a 15-year-old boy. But all this doesn't really make me a mobile phone addict, does it? But then one day something happened
I was playing Legion online. The other player was new to the game, so I could've killed him easily, but I didn't, because that wouldn't have been so much fun. Then a really weird thing happened. Suddenly I could hear his thoughts in my head. I was so surprised that I couldn't concentrate any longer and lost the game. I also thought I had gone crazy, so I decided to take a break. 
A few hours later I started playing again with a new player; it was a girl — and again I could hear her thoughts. It wasn't weird any more — it was cool! This was also addictive. I spent more and more time on my mobile phone, so I got little sleep, and I looked pale and a bit unhealthy. Then I found out another thing. I could influence the other players! By whispering commands that gave me an advantage, I could influence the game! I was the king of kings in the gaming world!
However, after a while it all got a bit boring. If all you do is win, there's no fun in gaming. And then I had a brilliant idea. I was playing a friend, and I gave him the command, "Meet me at seven in the park." I laughed at my idea, but I was curious so I went there a few minutes before seven — and he really turned up! I stayed hidden - it was a little bit scary.
So that was my new thing. Giving out commands for the real world — and they all worked! I found it very hard to believe ... was I going crazy or was I on my way to being the Master of the Universe? I wanted to tell someone, but who? They'd have taken me away to the mad house
So I'm currently adding new people to my personal collection of online slaves. So far I have quite a nice collection. I don't make them do anything stupid but I'm thinking about giving out more serious commands like "Leave me a present under the tree in the schoolyard." and stuff like that. That would be 0K, wouldn't it?
But... I have a feeling things aren'T quite as simple as they seem. What am I doing in bed still? It's 2 p.m., I'm not tired and I don't feel ill. I want to get out. And why am I turning on my phone? What's that? No, I don't want to delete my contact list. I don't. I've spent weeks collecting. I really don't want to, but it's happening. My finger is moving towards that button. There's nothing I can do to stop it!
The narrator doesn't think he's a FOMO-guy. 2 The teachers use their mobile phones as much as the students. 3 The narrator uses his mobile phone for gaming mostly
The narrator thinks his gaming is an addiction. a hobby. a way of meeting friends. 5 The narrator lost the Legion game because he was new to it. because he couldn't concentrate. because the other player could hear him
hen the narrator discovered his new power he thought he had gone mad. wanted to keep on gaming. felt tired.
Because there's no fun in gaming if you always win. Because other people probably would have taken him away to the mad house. 

You have read/heard about three people. What does/did each of them collect? 2 What do you think about them? Are/Were they all "crazy collectors"? Why / Why not? 3 Do you know anybody who collects unusual things? What do they collect? 4 Would you like to be a collector? Why / Why not? 5 What things should it be illegal to collect?
Have you ever collected anything? What was it? When did you collect How long have you had your collection of How long did you collect did you collect? How many . Have you still got any
One collects He has collected since/for One has never collected anything. 

Three collectors
THey collect kitchy souvenirs online game characters and football shirts. James collects things online, Janet and Martin in the real world.


Janet Wise collects souvenirs. But not any souvenirs; if possible, she tries to find kitschy ones. Her parents travel a lot and often take her with them. One day, when she was ten, in a small town in Germany, she saw a little porcelain deer, and she asked her parents to buy it for her. Now Janet has a room full of souvenirs from many different countries. Her favourites are a small painting from Vietnam, a plastic skull and a little brass gondola from Venice - and the little porcelain deer, of course. She has them all on a shelf in her bedroom

James Scully , doesn't collect things in the real world. His collections are online. James spends a lot of his time playing games on his game console. His favourite game is 'Plants vs Zombies'. There are many different characters in the game and by collecting coins and completing tasks, James can unlock new ones. He can also get different costumes for each character. You can also get these things by paying for them but James thinks this is too easy. "My parents don't really understand my collection," says James. "They think collecting should be about things like stamps or real coins." 

Martin Shaw has more than 30 football shirts in his collection. He got his first one when he was ten. It was a birthday present and it was the shirt of his favourite team Leeds United. Of course, he can't wear it any more because it's too small for him. He collects shirts from teams all over the world. His dad travels a lot for work and often brings him a shirt when he returns home. He sometimes wears his shirts but mostly he keeps them in the wardrobe in his bedroom.

Next, please. Yes, can I have the big burger meal deal, please? Certainly. Would you like a large or a small meal? A small, please. Does the hamburger have any sauce in it? Let me see. Yes, it does. It's got tomato ketchup. Could I have it without, please?

I’m not sure. It’s my first day here. I’ll just check ... Yes, you can. It will be a few extra minutes. Kate That’s no problem. I’ll wait. Assistant And you, mate. Are you ready to order? Tom Yes, I am. I’ll have the fried chicken meal. Does that come with a drink? Assistant Yes, coke, orange juice or milk. Tom I’ll have orange juice. Assistant And I forgot to ask you. What drink would you like with your hamburger meal? Kate I’ll have orange juice too, thanks. Assistant Are you paying together or separately
I'm paying. Assistant 0K, that's ß12 exactly, please. Thank you. Your meal will be ready in a few minutes.
(Tom picks up some sugar sachets and puts them in his pocket.)
hat are you doing? You're not going to put sugar in orange juice surely? No, it's for my collection. Collection? What do you mean? My collection of packets of sugar. Didn't you know that I collect them? No, I didn't. I learn something new about you every day.
Well, after we finish here, you'll have to come back to my house and see it. I can't wait!



He was the keeper of the library of his monastery. Barcelona. The book was printed in 1482 by Spain's first printer and people believed that it was the only copy left. His bookshop burned to the ground and he was found dead inside. Because the police found all of the stolen books at his house. He answered: "Every man must die sooner or later, sir, but good books must be preserved!" 

