Body talk 
Body piercing and tattooing can be a serious health risk. Every year a large number of people get infections and other illnesses (even hepatitis) when needles that are not sterile are used for piercing. In Austria nobody can have a tattoo under the age of 16. Young people from ages 16 to 18 need their parents' written consent. Doctors say that tattoos might create health problems later on in life.

A short history of body_art

The trendy Iceman
What does Ötzi (the mummy found in 1991 near the Austrian-Italian border) have in common with people who want to be trendy? Body piercing! The "Iceman" from about more than 5,000 years ago had pierced ears!
Piercing in the ancient world
In the ancient world, body piercing was often a symbol of courage* and class. That's why it was popular with the Pharaohs in Egypt and with important people in ancient Rome. The oldest mummy found in Egypt with ear piercing is over 5,000 years old. Tongue piercing was part of a religious ritual of the high priests of the Aztecs. They believed that if their tongues were pierced, they could communicate better with the gods.
Piercing in Africa and Central America
In these areas, people believed that demons could enter the body through the ears. So they pierced their ears and put ornaments in. They thought that the metal would stop demons from getting into the body.
Piercing in the time of Queen Elizabeth I

In Elizabethan England, a lot of famous men like Shakespeare, Sir Walter Raleigh and Sir Francis Drake wore gold rings in their ears. It showed their wealth. In those days, sailors also wore earrings, for two reasons: firstly, they thought they could see better if their ears were pierced; and secondly, they thought, if our ships sinks and we die, and our bodies are found on the beach, the gold earrings will pay for our funeral.
Piercing today
It was in the 1960s that body piercing became popular in Western cultures. This was when young people began to travel to India and nose piercings became popular. In the United States in the 1960s, body piercing became a form of rebellion for young people. Later, it lost its rebellious meaning and just became fashionable.
Tattoos
Tattoos, another popular form of body art, also have a long history. The Ötzi Iceman is also the oldest man discovered in Europe with tattooed skin.
The word tattoo comes from the Tahitian 'tatau', which means to mark something. It was introduced to the English language in the 18th century by the explorer Captain James Cook. In 1769, he wrote in his ship's log book that men and women of Tahiti painted their bodies. He also noted that it was called 'tattow' in their language and that the black ink was put under the skin so that it was permanent. He concluded that it was a painful operation and was done once in their lifetimes. Cook's science officer, Joseph Banks, returned to England with a tattoo. Many of the sailors also came back with tattoos. Tattooing became associated with sailors in Europe. However, many European kings such as George V of England, King Alfonso XIII of Spain, Kaiser Wilhelm II and Tsar Nicholas II of Russia also had tattoos.

Ötzi was found in Europe.
He had his ears pierced.
In ancient Egypt, piercing showed that you were brave.
The Aztecs performed tongue piercing as a part o fa religious ceremony.
In Africa, people pierced their ears to keep bad spirits out.
Having a pierced ear in Elizabethan England showed that you were rich.
In 1960s America, how did young people rebel? By piercing their bodies. 
How was the word tattoo introduced into the English language? James Cook used it in his log book.
What do you think has the tattoo become today?

In the Middle and Far East, it is not polite to point with your index finger. You should only point with an open hand (or your thumb in Indonesia), never with your index finger.

If you Show the soles of your feet or shoes in Thailand, people could think you want to insult* them. The soles are the lowest part of the body, so people think they are dirty
Do you smile when you want to greet someone in a friendly way? In some cultures people don't smile in this situation and in others people smile for different reasons. The Japanese, for example, may smile when they are confused or angry.
The "V" sign means victory in many cultures. is turned But if the palm of your hand towards your face, it is a rude sign in some cultures and might insult people.
n countries of the Middle and Far East, you should never pass something to another person with your left hand. People think the left hand is unclean In Japan, always use both hands to pass something on. 
In many countries of the world, this gesture means "OK". But it could get you into trouble in some countries. In Brazil, for example, the sign is very rude. In Japan, by the way, it means "money", and in France, it means "zero" or "worthless". 
Every culture has a "comfort zone" for personal space when people talk to one another. For Western Europeans and Americans, a distance is comfortable between people of 35 — 50 cm In the Ulf, people prefer a little more distance (60 cm); in Japan, even more (90 cm). People in the Middle East may feel strange if the person they're talking to keeps so far away: they prefer shorter distances of 20 — 25 cm.
Do you think nodding your head up and down means "yes" all over the world? You might be surprised if you go to Greece or Bulgaria. In those countries, nodding means "no"! 
Which countries have you been to? How many people from different cultures have you met? What things are the same in other cultures as in your own? (food, family life, school life, sports, ...) What things are different
I've been to A few years ago I went to... My mum/dad/sister/brother/ friend went on a trip to. told me that there 
a bride? 2 b a wedding dress? 5 c a bridegroom? 5 d a wedding suit? 4 e a bridesmaid

When Mum and I came into the sitting room, Aunt Nancy sighed and Uncle Jack looked at me and shouted, "Look, it's Dracula's daughter!" and then he laughed like mad. I ignored them and walked across their horrible orange carpet to the sofa. From there I could see myself in the mirror. I looked cool. I looked goth. Black clothes, fishnet stockings, heavy boots. White face, black eyeliner, black lipstick. Totally, totally goth. They all looked at me. Mum said, "It's her age, you know. It's a phase." Aunt Nancy smiled sadly and Uncle Jack said, "Does it speak?" "Ha-ha!" I said. "Yes, I can hear and speak." "Good," he said, "because with all that black stuff round your eyes, you probably can't see." He looked at Mum and his wife for some applause and they both giggled. "l hope she doesn't look like that on the wedding day," Aunt Nancy said. "Joy wouldn't want her to look like that." "Oh no," Mum said quickly. "She'll wear the dress Joy bought for her. Won't you, Felicity?" "Mum, please!" I said. "Sorry, Flicka — as she likes to be called now," Mum said to Aunt Nancy. "And what's that on its neck?" Uncle Jack shouted. "A tattoo," I said. "A tattoo of a spider's web." "Not a real one!" Mum said hastily again. "It's a wash-off one." "Wash-off, eh?" my uncle said. I ignored him because I was embarrassed. I would have liked a real tattoo and not my wash-off one, so I didn't say anything for the rest of the evening. The dress Joy gave me was terrible. All violet and white and cute. But I've always liked my cousin Joy. "l know I'm asking a lot, but I really want you to wear it for the wedding," Joy said. "You're my bridesmaid and I want everything to be just right." On the day of the wedding, I felt terrible. But Joy looked really happy, so I tried to smile, too. Everyone was wearing suits and flowery dresses — yuck. And then I saw a decent-looking boy. He had a suit and short hair, but he didn't look bad. Not bad at all. A few minutes later he walked over to me. "Cousin of the bride?" he said. "Yes," I said. "And who are you?" "I'm Lawrence. Cousin of the bridegroom." 

Which of the people in the story was a goth? called Felicity "Dracula's daughter"? found Uncle Jack's jokes funny? didn't find Uncle Jack's jokes funny at all? had a wedding? was the bridesmaid? bought a dress for Felicity? wanted to be called Flicka? had a tattoo that could be washed off? wasn't very happy on the day of the wedding? was the cousin of Joy's future husband? thought Lawrence was good-looking? 
Would you ever consider getting your nose pierced? Why / Why not? Would you ever consider getting a tattoo? Why / Why not? Would you like to have a school uniform? Why / Why not? How much do you care about what you look like? Why?

On the day of the wedding, I felt terrible. But Joy looked really happy, so I tried to smile too. Everyone was wearing suits and flowery dresses — yuck. And then I saw a decent-looking boy. He had a suit and short hair, but he didn't look bad. Not bad at all. A few minutes later he walked over to me. Cousin of the bride? Yes. And who are you? I'm Lawrence. Cousin of the bridegroom. So, how do you like it here? Well, this isn't exactly my scene. No. It's all so normal. And then I realised that Lawrence looked totally normal. 'l mean, I . I stammered.mean Just then, Uncle Jack walked past and he slapped Lawrence on the shoulder. Be careful! She's a Vampire. Uncle Jack laughed. I ignored him. Then I saw Joy at the other end of the room and I went over to talk to her. I forgot about Lawrence for a while. Later in the evening, I changed into my real clothes. Oh, it was good to be goth again. So I had scared off a good-looking boy, but all in all, the day had been 0K. Then, as I was walking back into the hall, I saw a boy coming down the stairs: spiky hair, a plastic top, fishnet sleeves and black leather jeans. Black eye make-up and super-long eyelashes. Hi! Oh, Er... Hi!  i, Lawrence. Er ...' I was so surprised I didn't know what to say. Then Lawrence took my hand and we walked off together. When Uncle Jack saw Lawrence, he seemed surprised too. What on earth?! I smiled at him darkly. I thought for a moment, and then I said: 'You'd better watch out! Because now there's two of us! Katia is Jessica's / Lucy's penfriend. Katia's mum/(@)is from Hungary. The headmaster didn't like Katia's shoes. Lucy wants doesn't wan o do a story on school uniforms. Most people at the aren't in favour of school uniforms. ick Liam wants to take photos of Katia.he thinks that she is at their school for learning English. her mum is British. he doesn't want the other pupils to look at her shoes and comment on them. they have already had a debate about school uniforms. he wants a picture of her "Austrian school uniform" for the paper. 





